Here’s your morning news update: An easy-to-read selection of our top stories. Stay up to date with The Citizen – More News, Your Way. Almost a month since the brutal murder of rapper Kiernan ‘AKA’ Forbes, Police Minister Bheki Cele says there is progress in the investigation into the murder. Cele was speaking to the media following the Ministerial imbizo on Fighting Crime and Gangsterism in Westbury on Tuesday, also attended by Gauteng premier Panyaza Lesufi and Joburg mayor Thapelo Amad. READ MORE: ‘Watch this space’ – Bheki Cele says police ‘cracking’ AKA murder case Former public protector Thuli Madonsela has maintained that she did not issue any reports on the CIEX and Vrede dairy farm investigations. On Tuesday, Madonsela continued with her testimony before the parliamentary impeachment inquiry into her successor, Busisiwe Mkhwebane. READ MORE: Mkhwebane inquiry: Madonsela says she didn’t sign any reports on CIEX, Vrede Now that President Cyril Ramaphosa has finally shuffled his Cabinet, the new ministers are expected to be sworn in on Tuesday, 7 March. The Presidency said President Cyril Ramaphosa would officiate at the swearing-in ceremony of new members of the national executive which is expected to take place at Tuynhuys in Cape Town at 6pm. READ MORE: Ramaphosa’s reshuffled Cabinet to be sworn in on Tuesday Media personality Bonang Matheba has long called for the head of former Sports, Arts and Culture Minister Nathi Mthethwa and now that he has been replaced with a new minister, many are looking to Matheba to see how she feels about finally seeing her wish come true.  Though she has not necessarily addressed Mthethwa by name, she did tweet the word “wonderful” on Monday evening, shortly after President Cyril Ramaphosa announced who would form part of his new Cabinet.  READ MORE: Is Bonang Matheba celebrating Nathi Mthethwa’s exit? Swallows FC coach Ernst Middendorp’s comments following his side’s defeat to Orlando Pirates didn’t sit well with the board of the club, and he has been told appologise, a source at the Birds has revealed. ALSO READ: Sundowns fall short of equaling Chiefs record after draw Middendorp spoke about not being afraid of being sacked as the head coach of the club in his post-match interview after losing 4-1 to the Buccaneers at the Dobsonville Stadium last Friday.