Dar es Salaam. As the world today celebrates International Women’s Day, seven women in the country have set unique records in the sports industry. They are Thabita Siwale, Fatma Said Ali, Fenella Mukangara, Pindi Chana, Pauline Gekul, Juliana Shonza, and Neema Msitha. Siwale, Ali and Mukangara on different occasions served as ministers for sports, whereby Chana is the incumbent minister appointed recently by President Samia Suluhu Hassan. Tanzania’s founding president Julius Kambarage Nyerere in 1975 appointed Thabita Siwale minister for Education and Culture that included sports. Siwale made history for being the first female sports minister in the country. History shows that Siwale was a teacher before her ministerial appointment by the late Mwalimu Nyerere. During her era, Siwale took sports to the next level of development especially in youths. She propelled sports development in primary and secondary schools that produced many young stars who made the country proud internationally by winning various medals from the early 1970s to the late 1980s. Siwale was followed by Fatma Said Ali, who was appointed to lead the ministry by second phase president Ali Hassan Mwinyi. Fatma Said Ali made as a commendable job in sports development in the country as Tanzania continued to shine in various sports internationally. Also, on the list is Fenella Mukangara, who led the ministry during the fourth phase government under retired president Jakaya Mrisho Kikwete. Another woman who led the ministry was Juliana Shonza who was appointed deputy minister by the late president John Magufuli. The list also includes Pauline Gekul who was deputy minister. Gekul served the post until changes were made recently by President Samia Suluhu Hassan. The ministry is now under minister Pindi Chana. Apart from that, the list has also Neema Msitha, who currently serves as the secretary general of the National Sports Council (NSC). Historically, Msitha is the first woman to hold the position of the top sports body in the country. In her remarks, the youthful secretary general said women are among the best leaders in all sectors not only in the country, but also globally. She commented that a leader needs to have the values of leadership and follow rules and regulations while avoiding favouritism. “We are leaders of all sports in the country and that is not an easy task. “You need to understand all sports bodies and treat them fairly. The main task is to develop them, despite facing various challenges,” said Msitha.