By Mwita Nelson The International Women’s Day is a global day celebrating the social, economic, cultural, and political achievements of women. The day also serves as a call to action towards accelerating women’s equality. As the world join ladies to celebrate the 2023 International Women’s Day, I could not be prouder of this year’s theme ‘DigitAll: Innovation and technology for gender equality’. It is a call on governments, activists, and the private sector alike to power on in their efforts to make the digital world safer, more inclusive, and more equitable. In Tanzania, we have recently witnessed the government investing in digitization initiatives to reduce poverty and create economic growth. Initiatives such as ‘Digital Tanzania’ project at the Ministry of Information and Communication Technology hold the potential to transform the country as far as technology is concerned. Platforms like Apps and Girls, Projekt Inspire, UN Women Tanzania, ShecodesForChange, Coding Programs under COL ICT and Tanzania Data Lab, and LP Digital, all work towards supporting and scaling up innovative solutions with a very close focus on gender balance. It is inspiring to note that women are also utilizing technology and innovation to create healthcare solutions, for example the Mobile Afya App — a digital health care solution co-founded by a Tanzanian woman, Mariatheresa Samson. Today, the world takes cognisant that, gender equality is not only a fundamental human right but also a keystone of a prosperous, modern economy that provides sustainable inclusive growth. Digital transformation provides new avenues for the economic empowerment of women contributing to greater gender equality. We need to seize this opportunity to foster greater gender equality in the labour market, boost economic growth and build a more inclusive, digital community. Just like other African countries, Tanzania has a notable digital gender gap hence the need to embrace this year’s theme and encourage women to actively take part in bridging this digital divide and strengthen inclusion. Education plays a big role in integrating young women into digitalization or any other opportunity. Additionally, right across the country, there iss need for mindset change from the family level in the way the girl child and boy child are given opportunities at home and what they get exposed to. Tanzania has over 28 million+ internet users as per the Tanzania Communications Regulatory Authority’s December 2021 report and has forecasted onboarding of 700,000+ new internet users per year. We are easily talking of 30 million+ internet users by 2025 which also happens to be the year we have pledged to achieve more than 80% of internet network coverage. The numbers also show that women make up at least half of the population hence a possible strong influence in pushing for digital inclusion. Tanzania is on the right path to development and the private sector players embracing technology and innovation are responding positively to the Mama Samia’s pro-business approach leadership, and if the agenda of women’s access and use of technology is promoted then it will help address the many limitations and barriers towards women’s socio-economic growth and further contribute to sustainable development In rural Tanzania, we are witnessing how innovations like mobile money integrated with digital payment systems and banking services has played a pivotal role in promoting women. Technology has made digital financial inclusion for women possible, opening doors to savings and financial security which has given them access to instant loans and in the long-term improving their economic status hence positively influencing their daily lives. This year’s theme is a reminder that the number of women in tech industry in Tanzania can be doubled hence creating a better future – not just for women and girls, but for all humanity. The theme is also call for schools to initiate civic education to enlighten girls on the importance of science, technology, engineering, and mathematics related studies. It is a call to work towards creating and nurturing human capital with the much-needed talent for the digital economy across all sectors as per our national development vision. Happy International Women’s Day. The views stated above are those of the author and not necessarily those of his employer. Mwita Nelson is a Senior Consultant at KPMG in Tanzania and can be reached at nmwita@kpmg.co.tz