The South African Weather Service (SAWS) has issued a yellow level 2 warning for severe thunderstorms, leading to large amount of small hail over the central and western parts of the North-west, north-western parts of Free State as well as the north-eastern parts of the Northern Cape, on Thursday.  Extremely high fire danger conditions are expected over the Dawid Kruiper, Kai !Garib and Khai-Ma Local Municipalities of the Northern Cape as well as Drakenstein Municipality of the Western Cape. Yellow level 2 warning for severe thunderstorms expected  for tomorrow: 02-03-2023. pic.twitter.com/YuQAkK1Wyn— SA Weather Service (@SAWeatherServic) March 1, 2023 Gauteng: Partly cloudy and warm with isolated afternoon showers and thundershowers. The expected UVB sunburn index: Extreme. Mpumalanga: Partly cloudy and cool to warm with isolated showers and thundershowers except in the north-east. Limpopo: Partly cloudy and warm with isolated showers and thundershowers in the Western Bushveld as well as in the extreme north-east. ALSO READ: As weather catastrophes become more common being underinsured can be devastating North West: Partly cloudy and warm, with isolated afternoon showers and thundershowers but scattered over the north-western parts.  Free State: Cloudy in the east with morning fog patches, otherwise partly cloudy and warm with isolated showers and thundershowers but scattered over the north-western parts. Northern Cape: Cloudy with fog along the coast in the morning where it will be cool, otherwise fine and warm to hot but partly cloudy in the east, where isolated to scattered showers and thundershowers are expected. The wind along the coast will be light to moderate southerly. Western Cape: Cloudy with morning fog along the west-coast, otherwise fine and warm to hot but very hot over the central and eastern parts. ALSO READ: Volatile price action, freak weather contribute to consumer panic The wind along the coast will be light to moderate westerly to south-westerly along the west-coast otherwise moderate to fresh easterly to south-easterly. The expected UVB sunburn index: Extreme. Western half of the Eastern Cape: Cloudy in places in the morning, otherwise fine and hot but warm along the coast. The wind along the coast will be light north-easterly, becoming moderate to fresh easterly by afternoon. Eastern half of the Eastern Cape: Cloudy in places in the morning, otherwise partly cloudy and warm with isolated afternoon thundershowers in the north-east. The wind along the coast will be light easterly, becoming north-easterly in the afternoon. KwaZulu-Natal: Morning fog over the interior, otherwise partly cloudy and warm with isolated afternoon showers and thundershowers.  The wind along the coast will be moderate southerly to south-easterly, becoming easterly to north-easterly from the south towards afternoon. The expected UVB sunburn index: Very High.