RwandAir plans to phase out its smaller Bombardier and possibly its De Havilland Canada aircraft and add more widebody jets to its fleet. According to Simplyflying.com, the airline plans to boost its regional operations as routes around Africa have proved more profitable and essential for developing aviation in the continent. The plan is to replace the Bombardier CRJ900s and possibly the DHC-8-Q400s with more Airbus A330s and Boeing 737s Fleet RwandAir currently has a fleet of 11 operational aircraft, which it flies to its destinations in Europe, Asia, and East, West, and Southern Africa. In a recent interview with AviaDev, RwandAir CEO Yvonne Manzi Makolo said they have a very diversified fleet but want to rationalize it. “We are looking at expanding the B737 fleet and the A330 fleet. We are working on phasing out the CRJs and are discussing regional aircraft, the Q400s as well, whether to continue with that or to look for alternatives." The airline is set to receive an Airbus A330, which will add more capacity, given that last year it split London from Brussels and started operating direct flights from London to Kigali. RwandAir needs more widebody jets as it plans to launch a Paris route tagged to Brussels. The A330 will also be deployed on the Dubai route to support both passengers and cargo. RwandAir's fleet consists of the following aircraft: RwandAir partnerships Yvonne Makolo said that discussions for a strategic partnership with Qatar Airways were at an advanced stage. First confirmed in February 2020, the Middle-Eastern airline plans to invest $28 million for a 49% stake in RwandAir. Qatar Airways is also at the forefront of constructing Kigali's new Bugesera Airport, allowing Rwanda's flag carrier to grow and strengthen its regional network. Yvonne Makolo met with the African Airlines Association (AFRAA) Secretary General Abderahmane Berthe in Kigali earlier this month. In the meeting, the two discussed RwandAir's vision and strategy, the opportunities for value addition through AFRAA joint projects, and initiatives to enhance revenue. AFRAA is a trade association of African airlines headquartered in Nairobi, Kenya. This association aims to establish and facilitate cooperation between African airlines. AFRAA developed the dialogue to create close engagement with member airlines and a space for necessary dialogue to develop transformative initiatives. RwandAir plans to boost its regional operations, by using Kigali International Airport as a central hub for African flights, given its geographical position at the heart of the continent. The airline's CEO also plans to engage with other African carriers to develop aviation around the continent and change the narrative of African airlines being "loss-making and unsafe.