Dar es Salaam. Famous professional boxer in the country Karim Mandonga will on March 25 fight Ugandan Keneth Lukyamuzi in the international middleweight non-title bout at the Kenyatta International Convention Centre (KICC) in Nairobi, Kenya. This will be the second time for Mandonga to fight in Kenya. He last fought there on January 14 against Kenyan pugilist Daniel Wanyonyi, who retired in the sixth round. Preparations for the bout, which is to be televised live by DStv, are going on well. Speaking with The Citizen yesterday, Mandonga said he is currently in intensive training targeting victory over the Ugandan pugilist. “I am ready for the fight. I call upon boxing fans to attend the fight and witness how I’m going to turn the Ugandan boxer into a punching bag. I also urge the organizers of the bout to prepare a stretcher and get ready to send in doctors to provide the first aid. I want to maintain my record in the game and I’m going to teach him a lesson so that he can regret why he agreed to fight me,” bragged Mandonga. He added that he is very happy that DStv have agreed to show the fight live and viewed all over Africa. “This is the time for me to show Africa and the world that I’m a real man. It is going to be a warning. If there is any boxer who believes in himself, let him come to face me, my job will only be to beat him,” Mandonga bragged further. MultiChoice Tanzania Head of Marketing Ronald Shelukindo said for many Tanzanians to view the fight, DStv will show it live through the Maisha Magic Bongo channel available in the DStv Bomba package. “We have placed this fight on DStv Bomba’s lower channel to give many Tanzanians the chance of viewing their boxing icon flying the Tanzanian flag in the boxing ring. This is just the beginning, we will continue to make sure that we add entertainment to our channels while giving our sportsmen and women a platform to be viewed internationally,” said Shelukindo Before the fight, boxer Nik Otieno from Kenya will fight Hassan Ndongo from Tanzania while George Bonabucha from Tanzania will face Michael Diares from South Africa and female boxer Fatuma Yazidu will fight Ugandan Consolata Musanga. Also, in Tanzanian Zawadi Kutaka will fight Kenyan boxer Plaxedus Odwor.