Arusha. Grace Alais is a disturbed young lady from the pastoralist family in Monduli district, Arusha region. Although she is proud to originate from the cattle herding community, she and other young ladies have the worst fears. She admitted the biggest problem she and her agemates face is being married off at a young age. “It makes a lot of women from Maasai run away from home and face other problems,” she said here on Thursday. Ms Grace, who did not reveal her exact age, was among scores of women who attended one of a series of events held here to mark the International Women’s Day (IWD). The event was organized by Pastoralist Women Council (PWC), a powerful lobby for the disadvantaged women from the livestock herding community. The non-profit organisation works in northern Tanzania to achieve gender equality through the empowerment of Maasai women and girls. To mark the Day, women and other leaders from Longido, Monduli, Simanjiro, Kiteto and Ngorongoro converged in Arusha. It was easy to guess what they would discuss this time around. Major among them were were sexual violence and the rights of women. Ms Grace lauded the PWC for the initiative to protect the girls from being married off at a young age, saying it impacted their lives. One of the strategies used by the lobby was taking the young girls from the area to school “so that they are not married off at a young age.” The school-going girls,she argues, should be left to pursue education “until an appropriate time for them to go for marriage.” PWC official Nalemuta Moisani echoed, saying she was passionate to see “women working to be at the forefront of ensuring that their rights are respected and protected.” A social welfare officer Abdala Nyange told the conference that through what he described as sexual violence, the pastoralist women were being denied of their rights. Denial of basic rights among women in the cattle herding communities like the Maasai, he opined, “is still a big problem.” Mr Nyange, who works in Longido district, suggested a collective effort by the government departments and the civil society to fight gender violence. Such efforts should include the traditional knowledge which, according to him, the traditional herding community had used “to manage its own affairs.” A councillor (Special Seats) in Kiteto District in Manyara region Ngaisi Meshaki Laizer said the Maasai women and others from the livestock herding communities were denied land rights. “Women do not have the right to own land, be it in her parent’s home or in marriage. The only person allowed to own land is a man,” she said. Ms Laizer called on the pastoralist community to mobilise women in the five districts to recognize the issue of land ownership for women. She appreciated efforts being made by PWC to encourage women to recognize their rights and survey women’s plots and farms. The Arusha-based lobby for women from the cattle herding communities has been passionate in the fight against the traditions deemed to be outdated. These include denying education to girl children and the right to own property such as land as well as marrying them off at a young age. Different forms of discrimination against women and girls have also been blamed for retarding economic empowerment efforts among women from the nomadic communities. Social workers in Arusha and Manyara region admit that the challenge has been compounded by outdated traditions like early marriages for young girls. Parents and the community leaders have often been castigated for condoning early marriages, a practice which also exposed the young girls to health risks and gloomy prospects in their lives.