Having ended 2022 off with the unveiling of the GR Sport, Toyota has given the Hilux another series of updates, albeit this time only for the Xtra Cab model. Potentially the last series of lifecycle changes in readiness for the all-new Hilux bowing in 2025, the changes, building on those applied two years ago, centre around the Xtra Cab Legend with the single cab and double cab remaining untouched. Focusing largely on safety, the items now standard form of Toyota’s Safety Sense 2.0 system that comprises Adaptive Cruise Control, Pre-Collision Warning and Lane Departure Warning. ALSO READ: Price: Toyota Hilux specification sheet updated As before, no changes have taken place underneath the bonnet or on the transmission front, with petrol power coming from a choice of three mills; the 102kW/183Nm 2.0-litre, the 122kW/245Nm 2.7 and the 4.0-litre V6 that produces 175kW/376Nm. Standard on the four-cylinder variants is a five-speed manual gearbox, with the bent-six getting a six-speed automatic as the sole option. On the diesel side, the entry-level 2.4 GD develops 110kW/343Nm, but swaps the five-speed manual for a six-speed on models bearing the GD-6 insignia. When fitted with the six-speed automatic, torque increases to 400 Nm. Rounding the range off, the ever popular 2.8 GD-6 produces 150kW/420Nm, the latter jumping to 500 Nm with the change in gearbox from the six-speed manual to the six-speed automatic. The same engine is also present in the GR Sport, but reworked to deliver 165kW/550Nm. A recalibrated take on the six-speed auto ‘box prevails as the only option as well. In total, seven colours are available across the Hilux range, albeit with the exception of Platinum White Pearl restricted to the Xtra Cab and double cab, and Attitude Black that is exclusive to the latter. They include Glacier White, Chromium Silver, Oxide Bronze, Cosmic Blue, Arizona Red, Inferno Metallic and Graphite Grey Metallic. The ever-popular Sand Beige is, however, available on all three bodystyles, but by special request only, with the GR Sport’ chart comprising four of the regular hues; Glacier White, Attitude Black, Arizona Red and Graphite Grey Metallic. Regardless of bodystyle, all Hilux’ sticker prices include a three-year/100 000 km warranty as well as a nine-service/90 000 km service plan. Single Cab Xtra Cab Double Cab This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. This is a modal window. This modal can be closed by pressing the Escape key or activating the close button.