Offering private and institutional clients access to over 200 instruments spanning a variety of asset classes on the popular MetaTrader 4 (MT4) and MetaTrader 5 (MT5) platforms, IFX Brokers acts as a feature-rich trading hub for a wide variety of traders.  IFX Brokers is an FSCA-regulated OTC forex broker spearheaded by a team with deep experience of the forex markets. The Board of Directors has 91 years of industry experience between them, and two of them are experts in derivatives. This innovative team made IFX the first local broker to introduce the wallet concept, whereby clients could retain funds in a cash wallet for fast and easy funding of their accounts. Other brokers soon adopted this concept, as it provides real convenience for forex traders. IFX Brokers is driven by a corporate philosophy of commitment, transparency, and trust, which is embedded in all of the brokers’ operations.  This philosophy is more than just a company’s brand; it guides all of its operations and makes sure that traders have a safe, reliable, and helpful place to trade. IFX Brokers understands that the forex markets are constantly changing, and as the largest and most volatile financial market in the world, traders need fast and immediate access to all the trading action with secure and competitive conditions. As part of IFX Brokers’ continual commitment to innovation and ground-breaking trading tools, they will soon be launching a feature-rich mobile app along with an auto-approved account opening system. This will allow for trading on the go and easy access to new trading accounts. IFX Brokers is unique amongst forex brokers for the fact that there is no minimum deposit requirement on standard accounts. This means that clients are free to begin their trading journey with the investment that best suits their trading strategy. This also means that there is no barrier to entry for new traders into the forex markets when they trade with IFX Brokers. This means that people who want to start trading can do so on a budget while they learn more about the different parts of the forex markets. Apart from the standard account, IFX Brokers offers a fantastic selection of additional trading accounts to suit a wide variety of trading strategies and styles.  Below are all the account types available from IFX Brokers: • IFX Standard Account: no minimum deposit required, access to a trading bonus, and full market access on either MT4 or MT5 • IFX Premium Account: minimum deposit of $250 with access to premium trading conditions such as tight spreads of 1 pip, no commissions, and a maximum leverage of 1:500 • IFX VIP Account: minimum deposit of $1000 gives you access to raw spreads as low as 0.5 pips and competitive commissions, with a maximum leverage of 1:500 • IFX Islamic Account: the Islamic account has a minimum deposit of $10 and is Riba free, so that traders of the Muslim faith can trade confidently across all instruments with spreads as low as 1.3 pips • IFX Cent Account: this is a great option for beginner traders who can trade in live market conditions with limited risk, leverage as high as 1:1,000, and no commissions. IFX Brokers provides traders with access to the full trading suite from MetaQuotes, consisting of both MetaTrader 4 and MetaTrader 5. In fact, IFX Brokers is one of the few brokers that offers both of these highly popular trading platforms, as MT4 is no longer available to new brokers. MT4 is by far the most popular trading platform on the forex market today, with its user-friendly interface, broad compatibility, lightning-fast execution, and wide variety of tools. MT5 is the updated version with additional trading features and advanced algorithmic trading. Both platforms are renowned for their automated trading systems; however, access to both MT4 and MT5 means that traders of different experience levels are all afforded a platform that suits their unique trading needs. It is easy to see why IFX Brokers is the top choice among traders today. The broker offers choice and variety with access to excellent pricing, a wide range of account types (MT4 and MT5), and a regulated, customer-oriented trading environment.  In order to be the best, IFX Brokers understand that they need to be: • Creative• innovative• ambitious • ahead of the pack. The latter is what drives IFX Brokers, a testament that has proven true for the thousands of traders who use this broker today. IFX Brokers has become a top regulated ODP licensed broker amongst traders in South Africa, who have found a safely regulated and competitively priced environment on this broker’s platform. Here, we take a closer look at what makes IFX Brokers the best choice, according to SA Shares traders.