Unguja. In order to attain goal number four of the sustainable development that advocates for quality and inclusive education reaching 2030, an emphasis has been made on increasing use of technology in schools. Zanzibar’s minister for Education and Vocational Training Leila Muhamed Mussa made the statement during a function to award teachers who have been using Shule Direct digital platforms in acquiring teaching skills. The function was organized by Shule Direct whereas 43 teachers from Unguja and Pemba presented with certificates aimed at recognising the use of their network in extracting tools for instruction. Speaking during the event, Ms Mussa said digital innovation is vital in improving access, instruction and control of the quality of education and training in schools. “Digital technology can be used to reduce the shortage of teachers, assist pregnant school girls and people with special needs as they could be used in different places at their conveniences,” she said. She commended the institution for coming up with the digital innovation, noting that it has significantly helped to address the challenge of teachers’ shortages. The minister called on other institutions to emulate what Shule Direct is doing in transforming the education sector in the country. Shule Direct executive director Faraja Nyalandu said initially they didn’t think that the idea could benefit the majority of Tanzanians as it is doing now. She said they have been motivated to see the women are using the digital platforms, something that has forced them to award and recognize some of them. “The platforms are new in the country’s education systems, but teachers’ enthusiasm, determination and awareness have been high, therefore recognizing and strengthening our solidarity with them will be an added advantage in ensuring the goal of attaining quality education is reached,” she said. She said the 43 awarded and recognized teachers are part of over 300 teachers in the Isles who have been using the platforms. Over four million students are using the network, with more than 60,000 teachers using the teaching platforms since the introduction of Shule Direct about nine years ago, according to her. She said the institution came up with the innovation after discovering an opportunity due to the increase in technology globally. Technological growth coupled with improved government policies, strategies and infrastructures stimulated innovation and introduction of the digital platforms. Some teachers in attendance including Saada Mbarouk Abdalla from Fuoni Secondary School said the system simplifies access to teaching tools and materials, “This is because you get everything there.” “There could be some challenges in access to equipment and books, but these are easily accessed through Shule Direct which has really been helpful,” she added.