By Glory Tarimo Innovation and technology have brought significant changes in the world, and it has become crucial to embrace their potential to bridge the gap to gender equality. According to the United Nations, the theme for International Women’s Day (IWD) 2023 is DigitALL: Innovation and technology for gender equality. This theme highlights the importance of digital technology in empowering women and girls and how it can contribute to achieving the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). In many African countries to date gender inequality remains a significant challenge. Women and girls are disproportionately affected by poverty, illiteracy, lack of access to healthcare, and limited economic opportunities. However, innovative approaches that disrupt “business as usual” have the potential to break these trends and create opportunities for women and girls to thrive. According to UN Women, 3.7 billion people globally do not have access to the internet and half of them are women. While in some parts of the world the gap is shrinking, it’s not the same for Africa. Technology being the future of work and everything sustainable, where it is estimated 90 percent of future jobs will require Information and Communications Technology (ICT) skills. One area where technology is already making a difference is in education. In many parts of the world, girls and women are still denied access to education, either because of cultural barriers or because of poverty. However, with the rise of e-learning and digital education platforms, more and more girls and women are gaining access to quality education. One example of this is the “She Learns Here” non-profit organisation, which provides free online courses and resources to women entrepreneurs in Nigeria. By giving women the digital skills and knowledge they need to start and grow their own businesses, this platform is helping to empower women economically and socially. Another illustration of the empowering ability of technology on the education front is the announcement last month by Rwanda’s ICT Ministry that the recently launched satellite service provided by SpaceX will be piloted in 500 schools in Rwanda, as part of a larger initiative to provide high-speed internet access to underserved areas in the country. Healthcare is another area where technology is having an impact. Women often face unique health challenges, such as maternal mortality and reproductive health issues, and in many parts of the world, women still struggle to access basic healthcare services. However, telemedicine is the future of health care, for example the current development of flying medical aids in South Africa which involves the use of drones to transport blood to tackle the high mortality rate among women during childbirth. Mobile health apps are also helping to bridge this gap by making it easier for women to access the care they need. Another illustration is the “Mum & Baby” app, which provides pregnant women in developing countries with access to important health information and advice from the start of pregnancy to early parenthood. The app also allows women to connect with healthcare professionals via video calls, helping to improve the quality of care they receive. Similarly, the “m-mama” app (designed by the Vodafone foundation) is transformational being an affordable emergency transport service that connects mothers and newborns to vital life-saving health care in rural areas of Tanzania and Lesotho. Such digital developments have contributed to a reduction in maternal and infant mortality rates. However, it’s important to note that not all technology has been successful in promoting gender equality. In some cases, technology has reinforced gender stereotypes or excluded women from participating in some activities. For example, there have been concerns about women facing harassment and online violence when using social media platforms, which can limit their ability to express themselves and engage in public discourse. Further some women even tend to restrict their engagement online for fear of cyberbullying and hateful comments. IWD 2023 provides an opportunity to reflect on the potential of innovation and technology to advance gender equity in African developing countries like Tanzania. It is a time to celebrate the progress that has been made towards gender equality and to reflect on the challenges that still lie ahead. This year’s IWD theme, “DigitALL: Innovation and technology for gender equality,” reminds us of the potential of technology to advance gender equality and empower women. Let us work towards a future where gender equality is the norm, not the exception, and where women are truly equal partners in shaping our world. Glory Tarimo is an Associate, Tax Services at PwC Tanzania