Dar es Salaam. It came as a pleasant surprise to Mr Emmanuel Chacha when he learnt that he would join a global platform of directors headquartered in Florida, USA. The founder and managing director of the audit firm Kepler Associates was in February appointed to the Global Board of Directors of the Institute of Internal Auditors (IIA), the only person from Africa to feature in the 17-member panel. Mr Chacha, 45, who has been appointed director of professional certification, becomes the second Tanzanian to join the IIA board after Mr Augustino Mbogella, who served as a member for three years from 2018. “I was in London for official duties when I received a call from the chairman of the IIA Global Nominating Committee, Naohiro Mouri,” says Mr Chacha, whose term will begin in July, this year, and end in July 2025. “It took me about half an hour to digest the news because it is the highest level of recognition in the internal auditing profession and it comes with big responsibilities.” Mr Chacha, who also served as IIA Tanzania president from 2011 to 2015, says reaching the top has not been easy. He adds that there is stiff competition, especially among potential candidates from Africa. “Due to tough competition, it is rare to get members from Africa and that is why I didn’t bother to apply for the post,” says Mr Chacha, who adds that members are picked either through application or appointed directly from their countries. Since its IIA’s inception 82 years ago, only three African countries have produced board members, namely Tanzania (2), South Africa (2) and Botswana (1). Mr Chacha says his appointment can enable Tanzania to benefit from resources, research and experiences and thus further develop internal auditing in the country. The holder of a Master of Business Administration (MBA) in Financial Services degree from the University of East London adds, “I think I was appointed based on my competence. I have been successful in all institutions I have worked with.” He is also the first Tanzanian to be elected chairman of the African Federation of the Institute of the Internal Auditors (AFIIA), a post he has held since May 2019. Mr Chacha, whose AFIIA tenure ends in May, says it has been four years of success as he has made it possible for members speak with one voice. “In the past, it was hard for members to agree on key issues, especially financing of the body,” the father-of-four says, adding, “That is now a thing of the past.” Noting that his appointment may build or kill future appointments, he says he will work around the clock to deliver. “My dream is to become the IIA Global Board chairman. I’m positive I have what it takes to get there,” asserts Mr Chacha. He is currently also doubling as the first IIA Global Nominating Committee member from sub-Saharan Africa, a post that he served from 2019-2020. Mr Chacha began his career with a humble beginning before navigating and becoming one of the most respected leaders in audit around the globe. Mr Mbogella, for his part, describes Mr Chacha as a passionate volunteer leader of the internal audit profession who has contributed to the development of the internal audit profession in Tanzania and Africa. Mr Chacha has consulted and trained in internal audit governance and risk management, he adds. “His appointment recognises the contribution that Tanzania has made to the development of the internal audit profession in Africa and the world,” says Mr Mbogella, managing director of GRC Solutions Ltd. GRC Solutions Ltd provides innovative and practical training and consultancy services in governance, risk management and control using the latest technology. Mr Mbogella concludes, “Tanzania should be proud of this achievement.” IIA Tanzania president Zelia Njeza describes Mr Chacha as a passionate, committed and hardworking auditor. “He never settles for less. He is really a passionate auditor and this doesn’t come by chance. It requires a commitment to serve even if at a free cost,” she says. Ms Njeza adds that Mr Chacha has been an inspirational leader to many including herself and when it comes to feedback, he doesn’t wait and talk aside. “He flags well our country when it comes to internal audit leadership and he continues inspiring many, not only here in Tanzania, but across Africa and the world. “I think this is something that has given him an opportunity to serve in the IIA Global board.” Tanzanians being seen globally, she adds, is a sign of a professional growth in Tanzania. Ms Njeza says Mr Chacha’s appointment will set the stage for Tanzania’s improvement in terms of internal audit profession and visibility of IIA Tanzania as well. “Having a seat on the global board, it is our strong belief that our voice will be heard instantly, instead of waiting for months/ quarterly to air out our professional issues.”