President Cyril Ramaphosa’s cabinet reshuffle and expansion of his office – with the addition of two ministries – is expected to cost taxpayers more than R40 million per year. This is according to Democratic Alliance (DA) Member of Parliament and Shadow Minister of Public Service and Administration, Leon Schreiber. Schreiber shared a tweet about the cost of the minister following Ramaphosa’s long-awaiting cabinet reshuffle on Monday, and  several delays which Ramaphosa apologised for.  “In the course of attending to current challenges, we are establishing two new ministries. The first of these is the minister of electricity to deal with the immediate crisis of load shedding,” Ramaphosa said. “The second is the minister with specific responsibility for planning, monitoring and evaluation to focus greater attention on the performance of government.”  Kgosientsho Ramokgopa will be South Africa’s first electricity minister while Maropene Ramokgopa will take up the portfolio of Minister in the Presidency responsible for Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation. ALSO READ: Kgosientsho Ramokgopa appointed as electricity minister Speaking to The Citizen, Schreiber said South Africans will fork out a lot more for the two additional ministers. “The two new ministers appointed by President Cyril Ramaphosa will cost taxpayers over R40 million per year in additional funding, this is according to the provisions of the ministerial handbook which entitles minister to a range of benefits.” He said this includes:  Schreiber said it is one home in Pretoria and one in Cape Town “for every single minister and deputy minister, on average is valued at R10m.” Thanks to the Ministerial Handbook, Ramaphosa's 2 more ministers will cost taxpayers over R40 million per year. They each get:Staff: R8.6m to employ 11 cadresVIP protection: R8 millionSalary: R2.4mCars: R1.6m Water and electricity: R120 000Two state-owned mansions pic.twitter.com/sFzGslktmD— Leon Schreiber (@Leon_Schreib) March 6, 2023 Schreiber said the DA introduced a “cut cabinet perks bill” to Parliament. “It will force the president to explain to parliament why he implements certain perks and to give Parliament full oversight and transparency over the ministerial handbook.” “It is very clear that with the changes to his cabinet, Ramaphosa has sought to create two additional high-paying luxury lifestyles for ANC cadres,” Schreiber added. ALSO READ: Sisulu replaced by De Lille as tourism minister – Here are changes to Ramaphosa’s Cabinet