Unguja. ACT-Wazalendo has substantiated its Zanzibar brand promise by saying that it seeks to eradicate petty politics, unite the Isles, achieve tax freedom and benefit from natural resources. It says the party had every justification for being given the next two presidential terms (2025-2035), during which it would fix all issues that had gone unresolved for the previous 60 years. The clarification was made on Sunday during a public rally held at the outskirts of Unguja in Nungwi Area. The public rally that was attended by all party senior leaders was held to explain what the ‘New Zanzibar, One Zanzibar and Complete Autonomy’ brand promise means for the Zanzibaris. Speaking during the event, the party’s vice chairman, Mr Othman Masoud Othman, said the promises had been launched a week after those related to the mainland.  “This is because in the past we have been doing petty politics that focused mainly on elections. But, this decision provides residents of the Isles with all the reasons to pick ACT Wazalendo during elections because they understand the party’s priorities,” he said. He said foreigners were the ones benefiting from the resources that are in Zanzibar and Nungwi, in particular, but the Isles are not benefiting even from lucrative natural resources found on the Mainland Tanzania. “We will only benefit from the resources found in the Isles once the party promises are fulfilled. Those interested in investing in Zanzibar should partner with the locals for both sides to benefit,” he said. “One Zanzibar means that we should make efforts to unify the public because this island belongs to all the people and not individuals in political parties such as CCM, Chadema, CUF, ACT, etc,” he added. Mr Othman who doubles as the Zanzibar’s Vice President in the Government of National Unity (GNU) entered between the ruling ACT-Wazalendo and the ruling CCM after the 2020 General Election said the full autonomy aims to provide the Island with the freedom to taxation. “There is no island in the world that does not have taxation freedom. It is difficult to establish a country without complete financial independence,” he said. Furthermore, he said Zanzibar is provided with a small share of the union revenue which however is not consistent, noting that the growing inflation has worsened the situation to the population in the Isles. “Inefficiency at the Zanzibar Port is another contributing factor. Despite the Chinese government’s readiness to invest in improving the Port, bigwigs in the union government were not ready to approve the deal,” he said. According to him, the island’s economy was hardly hit during the pandemic, something that forced Zanzibar’s government to design a proposal requesting relief funds from the International Monetary Fund (IMF). Mr Othman said again the request was turned down by the union government, noting however that the same proposal was improved by the Sixth Phase Government. “Upon approval, Zanzibar was given $100 million, about which some people have been expressing displeasure with the allocation,” he said. Addressing a packed ground, Mr Othman said that during the fifth phase government, gold worth $18 billion was seized in the Isles. The amount was confiscated after being passed illegally at the Isles, but senior officials from the Union Government arrived at the Isles and demanded to be given the natural resources on the grounds that Zanzibar does not own gold mines. “But, officials in the Zanzibar government made reference of the laws that allow full possession of such natural resources seized in the Isles due to illegal trafficking,” he said. “Those celebrating Zanzibar’s permission to extract its oil and gas are unaware that the laws haven’t given the Isles that authorization,” he added. According to him, all those shortcomings will be addressed once Zanzibar attains full autonomy because the Isles will have freedom with tax issues and their respective expenditures. Speaking during the event, party’s chairman Juma Duni Haji said citizens in the Isles have all the reasons to trust ACT-Wazalendo. “This is because the party has come up with alternative solutions to the challenges facing them. Party leaders are committed to serving citizens, despite passing through tough moments,” he said. Mr Haji stood as a running mate of Mr Edward Lowassa, who was the presidential flag bearer for the coalition of opposition parties famously known as Ukawa. “Today, I would like to share with you a document that was signed by the First Phase President of Zanzibar, Abeid Aman Karume. The document emphasises the advocacy for equality, consensus, and unity, which are the issues executed by ACT-Wazalendo,” he said. According to him, full autonomy is demanded because citizens are tired of injustices taking place in the Isles. Party’s secretary general Ado Shaibu said in order to achieve the New Zanzibar, One Zanzibar and Full Autonomy, ACT-Wazalendo should be given 10 years to lead the Isles (2025-2035). “Zanzibar has been under the Mainland settlement, which is unacceptable. Citizens on the mainland should be educated that the Isles are an independent country that has the right to its land,” he said. “As the union partner, Zanzibar deserves full autonomy. This is the reason we are fighting for the full autonomy of the Isles,” he added. ACT-Wazalendo’s deputy secretary general (Zanzibar) Nassor Ahmed Mazrui said the full autonomy is demanded because the citizens are tired of unaccountable leaders with inability to incidents of injustices that have been left the Zanzibaris with the orphanage status. However, a member of the Central Committee (CC), Mr Ismail Jussa Ladhu said the full autonomy is fought to stop granting foreigners the historic places for investment. “For instance, the Tumekuja School has been given to an investor and its activities have been relocated to another place. Our worries are that such incidents could be extended to other places, including Nungwi,” he said. “We have only two and a half years remaining. When elected, ACT-Wazalendo is going to probe and revoke all dubious contracts and return the land to the previous owners,” he added, observing that party leaders will continue highlighting such issues until full autonomy is restored in the Isles. Brand promise Launching the brand promise for Zanzibar at the Verde Hotel on Saturday, the party’s Vice Chairman, (Zanzibar), Mr Othman Masoud Othman said New Zanzibar, One Zanzibar with full autonomy means transforming the lives of citizens in the Isles. He said full autonomy means providing the Isles with power, status and the requisite rights in the Union and international development relations. “This means Zanzibar has strong economic and financial policies that enable the full ownership of oil, gas and other natural resources,” he said. Mr Othman, who doubles as the First Vice President of Zanzibar, said the New Zanzibar is the one that will be the East African business hub with a huge ability to provide custom services and packaging of products. Mr Othman, who succeeded the late Seif Shariff Hamad in the Government of National Unity (GNU) in Zanzibar, said the New Zanzibar was the one without high inflation and citizens whose income enabled them to meet their life expenses. The New Zanzibar, One Zanzibar and full autonomy were the Isles with the new Constitution, equipped with better judicial systems for justice dispersion and a strengthened anti-corruption war. “The New Zanzibar is the one with improved services in the public sector as well as Local Government Authorities (LGAs),” he said. “It is the one with strong political systems that makes our cities clean like those in Singapore, Hong Kong and Dubai,” he added. He said Zanzibar respects people’s rights and has land use plans for the construction of low-cost houses that will enable every citizen to meet the costs of possessing a decent settlement. Furthermore, he said the New Zanzibar was the one that would be self-sufficient in the provision of reliable and environmentally friendly electricity and access to clean and safe water for urban and rural dwellers. According to him, the New Zanzibar was the one that would provide free education to citizens from the grassroots level to the university. The education system should equip the youth with skills and knowledge enough to enable them to get employed and employ themselves in different sectors of the economy. “The Zanzibar that will be free from discrimination and that promotes unity, equality, consensus, and respect. We are here to inform you that ACT-Wazalendo has the ability to build the New Zanzibar, One Zanzibar, with full autonomy,” he said. “This party is an organ with the ability to take the islands to the said dream that was left behind by our elder and beloved one, the late Seif Shariff Hamad,” he said, hinting that party leaders were the captains obliged to take the vessel to its accurate destination.