Here’s your morning news update: An easy-to-read selection of our top stories. Stay up to date with The Citizen – More News, Your Way. President Cyril Ramaphosa says he has noted the public protector’s preliminary report on the burglary at his Phala Phala game farm, which clears him of any wrongdoing. Acting Public Protector advocate Kholeka Gcaleka’s preliminary report on the Phala Phala farm scandal was leaked on Saturday. ALSO READ: Ramaphosa has 10 days to reply to preliminary PP report on Phala Phala The 191-page report found that there is no basis to conclude that the president contravened the Executive Ethics Code, or “exposed himself to any risk of a conflict between his constitutional duties and obligations and his private interests arising from or affected by his alleged paid work” at the Limpopo-based farm. However, the draft document did make adverse findings against members of the South African Police Service (Saps) who were attached to the presidential protection unit. Read more here.  Meanwhile, the Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) has dismissed Acting Public Protector advocate Kholeka Gcaleka’s preliminary report into Phala Phala. The EFF said the outcome of the report from the Office of the Public Protector was “predictable”. ALSO READ: ‘The less said, the better’: Ramaphosa notes PP report clearing him over Phala Phala burglary The Red Berets described the report’s preliminary findings as “nonsensical” and “irrational”, and further accused Gcaleka of being captured by the president. Meanwhile, Democratic Alliance (DA) leader John Steenhuisen said his party’s initial analysis of the preliminary findings was concerning. Steenhuisen said the report contained a number of “inherent contradictions”. He said the acting public protector outsourced much of the investigatory work to the South African Revenue Service (Sars) and the South African Reserve Bank (Sarb), “where it will be cloaked in secrecy”. Read more here. President Cyril Ramaphosa says the election campaign ahead of the much-anticipated 2024 national and provincial elections is now in full swing. Ramaphosa on Saturday was on the campaign trail in KwaDukuza on the KwaZulu-Natal north coast in his capacity as the president of the African National Congress (ANC). The president embarked on a voter registration campaign and also took part in a wreath-laying ceremony at the gravesite of late ANC president Chief Albert Luthuli. Read more here. Cape Town Mayor Geordin Hill-Lewis has thrown down the gauntlet ahead of a national shutdown planned by the Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) for 20 March 2023.  The mayor recorded a video message lambasting the planned action stating “We will be open for business as usual. Those responsible for violence will be arrested.”  The mayor promised that the city will do what it takes to ensure that children get to school on time, that workers can get to work and that the economy can keep running.  Read more here.  While some Mamelodi Sundowns supporters were still walking into the Loftus Versfeld Stadium, Marcelo Allende had already put Sundowns in the lead as early as the 4th minute to begin the slaughter of Al Ahly. ALSO READ: Vilakazi ready to help Sekhukhune make its name  Sundowns beat The Red Devils 5-2 to book their place in their knockout stages with two games to spare as they played in front of a capacity stadium in Pretoria on Saturday afternoon. The Brazilians regained the lead of Group B as they now have 10 points ahead of Al-Hilal, who sit on nine points. Read more here.