Dar es Salaam. After a tough assignment in the CAF Champions League, Mainland Tanzania giants, Simba SC, today meet African Sports of Tanga in the Azam Federation Cup encounter at the Uhuru Stadium in Dar es Salaam. Simba, who are in Group C of the African Champions League, won 1-0 over Uganda’s Vipers at St Mary’s Kitende Stadium to improve their position in the group standings. The Reds are now placed in the third position with three points from three matches. It was a must win encounter for the Msimbazi Street giants in search of the knockout stage qualification. The team’s head coach Roberto Oliveira alias Robertinho said they are not underestimating any team in the Azam Federation Cup fixtures and their target is to win the title. Robertinho said African Sports who are featuring in the second tier, Championships, have reached the stage by merits and urged his players to show their commitment in the duel and eliminate their opponents. He explained that his players are in high morale and have promised to do their best to eliminate the Tanga based team. “We are well aware that gaining control of African Sports will not be easy. They are one of the league’s tough teams. So, we are approaching this match with caution,” said Robertinho. “All my players are in good shape, we have worked on all the mistakes that we made in our previous matches, and hopefully, we will eliminate African Sports in the duel,” he said. African Sports head coach Mussa Rashid said they have prepared well and his players are ready to face Simba’s challenge. Rashid said his players are in high morale ahead of today’s encounter. “It is a knockout match in which we will have to play with determination. We are facing a very tough team indeed, but our target is to win,” said Rashid. According to Rashid, they are going to play with precautions since African Sports will also be searching for victory in order to sail through. So far Ihefu’s striker, Andrew Simchimba, is leading the golden boot race after scoring five goals. Players Moses Phiri (Simba), Clement Mzize (Yanga), Sadala Lipangile (KMC) and Richardson Ngy’ondya of Mbeya City are following Simchimba with four goals each. The list has also Ismail Mgunda of Tanzania Prisons who has scored three goals while Abdul Suleiman Sopu (Azam), Joshua Nyantin, Zabona Hamis (Prisons) and Yusuph Athuman, who plays for Coastal Union on loan from Yanga, have each scored two goals. The knockout tournament features 16 teams and the winner will represent the club in the next edition of the CAF Confederation Cup.