The Mo Ibrahim Prize for Achievement in African Leadership is now in its sixteenth year. This is quite a period to make a proper evaluation on its effectiveness. The prize falls under the Mo Ibrahim Foundation. For those who may not be aware of it, it is the brainchild of one businessman/philanthropist of Sudanese origin, Sir Mohammed Ibrahim.  The prize is indeed one of a kind in the world in terms of its criteria and the handsome monetary reward that accompanies it for life. On the latter, how I only wish I was in an experienced position to know the nexus between good leadership at the highest level and monetary reward. Doubtless it was a heartfelt initiative on the part of Mo Ibrahim to ameliorate the deplorable standards of leadership in most parts of the continent. The many failings of leadership over the decades ring tragically loud. For this, in a speech in 1996 when receiving the Nnandi Azikiwe Award at a ceremony in Abuja, Nigeria, Mwalimu Julius Nyerere was absolutely scathing of the continent’s leaders: “To the People of Africa, however, we who are or have been leaders do have apologies to make. In other fora I would have no difficulty in pointing to Africa’s successes - the advances of our people and our nations. There is indeed much of which we can be proud. But I am speaking in Africa, to Africans. And the truth is that our failures are legion, our weakness is pathetic.” He added: “In practically every part of our continent, our society is fragmented by ethnic, religious and other forms of civil strife that has made our development and progress extremely tenuous. Too many of us leaders have been corrupted by power, bribed by wealth; are ignorant or indolent and most always too willing to say ‘Yes’ to those from whom the African People won national independence. And in other cases, our political judgement, or our courage, was simply inadequate to the challenges facing the least developed and most exploited of the former colonial countries.” Against such a backdrop, the work of the Foundation was clearly cut out. Specifically, the MIF’s work is to “recognise and celebrate African executive leaders who, under challenging circumstances, have developed their countries and strengthened democracy and human rights for the shared benefit of their people, paving the way for sustainable and equitable prosperity.” It also “highlights exceptional role models for the continent and seeks to ensure that the African continent continues to benefit from the experience and wisdom of exceptional leaders once they have left national office, by enabling them to continue in other public roles on the continent.” Crucially, “it is an award and a standard for excellence in leadership in Africa, and not a ‘first prize’ as there is not necessarily a Laureate every year.” The big question is where are we today with this high-minded prize? As it is, all the seven recipients since 2007 are from what I would call extreme ends of Africa meaning either war-torn countries at some point in time or politically “mature” countries with populations that are also minuscule.  I sincerely wonder whether the prize was intended for such countries and not those in the so-called large middle like Tanzania that suffer from completely immature leadership. In the case of Tanzania, we have been grappling over the decades with successive governments determined to ensure that we are far from operating in the league of well-functioning multi-party states. We don’t even have a basic provision for independent candidates despite all the legal battles. It’s a crying shame! Our nauseating immaturity is indeed what led Tanzania to fall into Magufuli’s hands like a cruel joke! Broadly speaking though, not a single East African country is in the frame for the prize. To my mind, it is too problematic as envisaged. And beyond that, virtually all the Laureates have not appeared on the various continental African fora to offer in a salutary manner their experiences of highest office as was intended by the Foundation. Their stories pretty much end with the prize. In my humble submission, it is time the Foundation changes tack. If among its noble intentions is the “strengthening of democracy and human rights”, why not then focus on Africa’s political institutions. If the AU was working as it should, it could have been a candidate just like how the EU was by the Norwegian Nobel Committee in 2012. Or for that matter the Tunisian National Dialogue Quartet in 2015. Other institutions are, for instance, political parties. Significantly, it was the late President Kibaki who stated in his heyday as the chief opposition leader that “focus needs to be maintained on the fact that the political party in Africa is the most basic but often the most ignored building block of a modern democratic order.” The Foundation could come up with a zonal monitoring mechanism whereby political parties, whether in government or out, but are seen to be making a healthy impact to the growth of democracy and respect for human rights are recognised. Similarly, robust media institutions can be recognised for furthering the ideals of the Foundation. My final word on the prize is to sincerely urge the Foundation to consider recognising Julius Nyerere as an Honorary Laureate posthumously. Nelson Mandela was recognised in 2007 ‘for his devotion to democracy and equality’. Mwalimu has many positive attributes, starting from his own stepping down from the presidency in 1985 to championing human development in Africa.