Dar es Salaam. Chadema, the main opposition party, is now planning to expand its presence in the coastal zone after gaining 384 new members from the Civil United Front (CUF). Comparatively to other opposition parties that faced up against the ruling Chama cha Mapinduzi (CCM) party during elections, CUF continued to dominate the coastal region. However, CUF has recently experienced internal issues that have cost its members, who are now defecting to Chadema and the Alliance for Change and Transparency (ACT-Wazalendo). Mr Abdul Kambaya, the former CUF director of communications and ideology, was one of the new members who joined Chadema. The new recruits will boost the party in the coastal region, where it has not fully realised its potential for many years, according to Chadema’s chairman, Mr Freeman Mbowe. “I’m glad that the majority of the newcomers we are welcoming today are from the coastline region, where our CUF colleagues have strength. Our party-building efforts were mostly focused on the interior of the mainland for a long time” Mr Mbowe said. “We will use you guys in our coastline operations as we seek to completely change this area,” he said, adding that Chadema targeted the coast regions of Tanga, Dar es Salaam, Coast, Lindi and Mtwara. The new members were urged to be free by Mr Mbowe, who emphasised that the party is now reviving for the general election in 2025. “The new members are our fellow Tanzanians, who are supposed to be free to do politics. Chadema leaders should accept them. I don’t want to hear that any leader is blocking the new members for fear that their position will be taken,” he said. Mr Mbowe also thanked the new members for their decision. “We have paid a high price to build this party; some of us have endured immense suffering, some have perished, but we have stayed steadfast in our commitment to developing Tanzania and ensuring the welfare of every one of us,” he said. He said in strengthening the party in the coastal areas, the stakeholders have decided to walk every area, from house to house, with the aim of preparing the nation for major changes in the future. Kambaya speaks out. Mr Kambaya, whose CUF membership was revoked a year ago, said yesterday that he would not want to recall what happened in the past. “I’m happy to receive my membership card from the chairman of the main opposition party in Tanzania and I am now ready to move ahead,” he said. Mr Kambaya said he would want to work day and night to ensure Kinondoni constituency is under Chadema, whose main offices are there. “I think most people know me. My job will start just after this function. I want to make sure that Kinondoni becomes under Chadema as we strengthen the party in the coastal zone,” he said.