Arusha. Ugandan nationals have landed on plum jobs in the East African Community (EAC) secretariat even as the regional organisation is trimming down executive positions. The founding member of the Community will this time around produce the new deputy secretary general who will be in charge of Customs, Trade and Monetary Affairs. New position This is a new position after the streamlining of senior positions in which the Secretariat will have only two deputy SGs to assist the secretary general; the CEO of the organisation. Ms Annette Ssemuwemba, sources at the secretariat intimated, has been appointed the deputy SG and will be in charge of Customs, Trade and Monetary Affairs. The docket is rather new as the secretariat has had two deputy SGs for years now; one responsible for Planning and Infrastructure and the other Projects and Programmes. However, the new position for the deputy SG - Customs, Trade and Monetary Affairs - is among decisions made years back to streamline the composition senior executives at the EAC The other deputy SG, also appointed during the recent EAC Council of Ministers meeting in Bujumbura, will be in charge of Political Affairs and allied integration matters. A candidate from South Sudan, whose name The Citizen could not obtain, will take up the position. This will be the first time Juba produces an EAC official in that senior rank. New appointees Sources at the Arusha-based secretariat said yesterday that the new appointees in the executive positions were likely to take up their positions in April this year. That is when the last remaining deputy SG Steven Mlote from Tanzania is set to retire at the end of his three year term, renewed once, from 2017. The other deputy SG Christophe Bazivamo from Rwanda, who was in charge of Projects and Programmes, exited in August last year at the end of his six year tenure. Under the new institutional structure, the EAC will have only two deputy SGs unlike in the past when each member state had one except a country which produced the SG. Ms Ssemuwemba had, until her appointment, served as a deputy executive director at the Executive Secretariat at the World Trade Organisation (WTO). Prior to that, she was the Chief Strategy and Results Officer and member of the leadership team at TradeMark East Africa (TMEA) which supports EAC in trade-related projects. She is an international development professional with over 20 years of experience in international trade and development, primarily trade policy formulation and regional integration. Another Ugandan national who has landed on the senior position as per the recent appointments is Ms Caroline Asiimwe, who becomes the new executive secretary of the East African Kiswahili Commission (EAKC). Deputy registrar The other is Vincent Okoth, who now becomes the deputy registrar of Mergers and Acquisitions. The position is new and has been created to facilitate matters pertaining to ownership of companies and other business entities. The EAC secretariat, an executive arm of the Community, is currently headed by Dr Peter Mathuki from Kenya, as the secretary general; the sixth since it was revived. Hierarchy-wise he is assisted by Dr Anthony Kafumbwe, a Ugandan national who is the chief legal advisor or better known as CTC (Counsel to the Community). None of Tanzania holds the executive position at the East African Court of Justice (EACJ) and the East African Legislative Assembly (Eala), the remaining organs. However, Tanzanian nationals are heading two EAC institutions – the Lake Victoria Basin Commission (LVBC) at Kisumu in Kenya and Lake Victoria Fisheries Organisation (LVFO) in Jinja, Uganda.