Dar es Salaam. Tanzania’s envoys in the CAF Confederation Cup, Young Africans (Yanga), today play their crucial match against Real Bamako of Mali. The encounter will be officiated by Algerian referees namely Ghorbal Mustapha, who will be at the centre and assisted by Mokrane Gourari and Abbes Akram Zerhouni. The fourth official is Loutfi Bekouassa. Rwandan Michel Gasingwa will be the match commissioner while Sylvester Kirwa from Kenya is the referee assessor and Zimbabwean Timothy Mazhindu is the general coordinator. The two teams seek victory in order to improve their chances in the group D log at the Benjamin Mkapa Stadium. In their first game played at Stade 26 Mars in Bamako, the two teams recorded a 1-1 draw. Real Bamako equalized in the added time. Yanga are second with four points and victory in the encounter will boost their plan of searching for the qualification ticket for the knockout stage of the competition. Other teams in group D are leaders Union Sportive Monastirienne with seven points and third placed TP Mazembe of the DR Congo, who also have collected three points. Real Bamako are at the bottom with two point. Apart from Yanga and Real Bamako, another match scheduled for day is between the hosts Union Sportive Monastirienne and TP Mazembe of DR Congo in Tunis. The match is also crucial for the two teams in the group, whereby TP Mazembe target victory in order to improve their chance in the group table. In the first match, Tunisian side won 2-0 in Lubumbashi. Yanga head coach Nesreddine Nabi said his players are in good form and are optimistic about coming out with a good result in the match despite Real Bamako being a strong team. Nabi said they will play with determination to record a positive result in the duel. “We are ready for the clash. It is going to be tough as Real Bamako also target victory. My players know what Tanzanians need from them,” said Nabi. AS Real Bamako head coach Nouhoum Diane said they will be searching for victory in the encounter despite a strong opposition from Yanga. He said the match is very important for the knockout stage qualification. Arithmetically, Yanga need victory or a draw in order to make them comfortable in the group. Both teams have the chance of qualifying for the knockout stage if either team win the encounter.