Dar es Salaam. After their convincing result of 1-0 against Uganda’s Vipers FC in the CAF Champions League, Simba today face Mtibwa Sugar as the Mainland Tanzania Premier League continues at different two venues. Apart from the 4pm match scheduled to take place at Turiani’s Manungu Complex in Morogoro, Namungo FC will at 7pm be hosting Tanzania Prisons at the Majaliwa Stadium in Lindi. However, all eyes and ears will likely be directed at the Manungu Complex, where the two teams meet for the second time after 24 years. Simba played Mtibwa Sugar on January 22 last year and the encounter ended in a barren draw. In the past, the Tanzania Football Federation (TFF) and the Tanzania Premier League Board (TPLB) moved Mtibwa Sugar‘s matches against giants Simba and Yanga to the Jamhuri Stadium. However, this time around things have changed as Mtibwa Sugar have been allowed to use their home ground with a capacity of not less than 1,000 football fans. It will be the historic match for the two teams that target victory in order to improve their chances in the league standings. Simba are placed second in the league table with 54 points from 23 matches while Mtibwa Sugar are ninth with 29 points from 24¬ matches. Yanga are at the top of the league log with 62 points from 23 matches. Mtibwa Sugar head coach Salum Mayanga said they target victory in the encounter, although they are facing a strong opposition. Mayanga explained that Simba are one of the top teams in the league with good players, but said they have prepared to shock them as the three points are very important to them. “We need to play with determination against Simba in our game. My players are in high morale ahead of the match. Our target is to win the tie,” insisted Mayanga. Simba head coach Robert “Robertinho” Oliviera said they are taking the match seriously and that they will hopefully emerge victorious. “We do not underestimate any team in the league. We target victory in order to chase the top position and reduce the gap,” said Robertinho. According to him, said all his players are in good shape and have promised to win the encounter.