Colonial ties determine how African nations interact with their former colonial masters. Nigeria, Ghana, and Kenya have closer connections with Britain, while Senegal, Mali, and Ivory Coast maintain strong relationships with France. These ties dictate not only political alliances but also economic partnerships, cultural exchanges, and even the languages spoken. I was recently whisked away to Paris for a weeklong study visit as part of the prestigious French government’s Future Leaders Invitation Program. I had nearly 20 meetings lined up, and with River Seine as an ever-present companion, I crisscrossed the city countless times and soaked in everything Paris had to offer. It was like a year’s worth of experience packed into one week! My main objective was to explore potential areas of cooperation between Tanzania and France. To get a deeper understanding of this matter, I asked for as many meetings as I could. What I discovered was quite promising—the people of France are open to increasing business cooperation with Tanzania. However, it’s up to Tanzanians to seize these opportunities and unlock their full potential. Tanzania and France have had diplomatic relations for over 60 years. However, France’s traditional investments in energy and transport – today one might think of TotalEnergies’ involvement in Eacop and AFD’s investment in Phase 5 of DART as representative of that – have not significantly boosted France’s profile in Tanzania. Therefore, much remains to be done to position France as a preferred partner for Tanzanians. Likewise, Tanzania’s profile in France is also wanting. Only 2,000 Tanzanian immigrants reside in France, and fewer than 40 Tanzanian students study there annually. A low level of French proficiency exists among Tanzanians despite the country’s proximity to three French-speaking nations, where 1.5 million people are exposed to the language. A Tanzanian in Paris told me that one cannot find a single store selling goods from Tanzania in Paris. To address this, Tanzanians must be more cohesive, and their embassies should provide more leadership. When your embassies are overlooking your candidates for employment, don’t support candidates applying for scholarships, and when you don’t patronise each other’s businesses, you are setting yourself up for failure. That may explain, for instance, the difference between remittances from Kenyan diaspora in 2021, a whopping $3.7 billion, and Tanzanian diaspora, a paltry $560 million. Economic success requires teamwork, so Tanzanians must work together to enhance their financial outcomes. The low starting point notwithstanding, there are signs that bilateral relations between Tanzania and France are experiencing a renaissance. France is undergoing a reinvention of its approach towards Africa, which has made East Africa a priority. That is why Tanzania has hosted two French ministers in less than two years. More will come, including President Emmanuel Macron himself. That is unprecedented: and it promises enormous possibilities, along the traditional areas of interest and more. On the Tanzanian side, many opportunities are opening up too. For instance, with over 100,000 French visitors last year, Tanzania is gradually becoming a popular tourist destination for the French. Establishing Air France’s direct route to Dar es Salaam is a step in the right direction. However, it is crucial to avoid portraying the nation primarily as a wildlife reserve and reinforcing the negative stereotypes of ‘Adventures of Tintin in The Congo’. We must position ourselves strategically to take advantage of other opportunities beyond tourism. During my trip to France, I had the opportunity to visit Station F, the world’s largest startup campus, which houses approximately 1,000 businesses. I was glad to discover that Tanzanian President Samia also visited Station F in February last year. Tanzania needs to do much better in launching, incubating, and accelerating startups. France has so much to offer in terms of support and expertise. In several meetings, I was impressed by the French’s willingness to help Tanzania grow its startup ecosystem. In one of my meetings, I was asked about the West’s relationship with Africa compared to China’s. I didn’t hold back: I think the West has lost the plot in Africa. The figures speak for themselves: while China surpassed France as Africa’s largest trading partner in 2009, today it commands at least four times more trade than France. The difference is that the Chinese know that Africa matters and that changes the game completely. The sooner the West admits that the sooner it will start to engage Africa the way it engages other regions. Possibly France has begun to make such a shift. Possibly it has realised that its prior tactics cannot guarantee long-term success in a cutthroat African environment, particularly with China around. Possibly it has grasped that its success depends on admitting and meeting the needs of Africans too. Mere human rights rhetoric will not do here—there is a need for meaningful partnerships based on mutual benefit and respect. In 2022, France generated over $100 billion through agriculture. France’s expertise and investment could be quite a game-changer for Tanzania, which is overly dependent on agriculture yet its overall GDP doesn’t even match the French’s agricultural output. The same applies to collaboration in higher education, fostering entrepreneurship and innovation, technology transfer, etc. In other words, by leveraging their advantages, France and the West can win hearts and minds in Africa in diverse ways. As the world faces a range of challenges, from Covid to climate change to the ongoing conflict in Ukraine. Tanzania must position itself strategically to take advantage of emerging opportunities. Through engagement with France and other partners, Tanzanians can seize the moment and build a brighter future for themselves. I went to Paris to learn. The people of France are saying that they are ready to engage us. The ball is in our court.