Today is International Women’s Day, and Tanzania joins the rest of the world in honouring it. As a nation, we have every reason to be proud of the advancements made in the area of women’s empowerment. The government, under the leadership of President Samia Suluhu Hassan, has been doing a lot in this regard. Being the country’s first female president, Mama Samia has been trying to provide equal leadership opportunities to both men and women alike. Since taking office, she has appointed more women to leadership roles at all levels, including in crucial ministries. This shows her confidence and trust in women, even in areas where many would not have considered placing a woman. We would like to take this opportunity to thank Mama Samia for her efforts and willingness to ensure that women and girls have equal opportunities to realise their potential as we honour women today. Likewise, we commend government institutions, NGOs, and private companies that recognise the value and contribution of women in their places of work. We salute those that have gone a step further by putting in place women’s empowerment policies. Despite these efforts, a lot still needs to be done to make the celebrations of Women’s Day meaningful. Perhaps we should ask ourselves this question. Are women in the remote areas even aware that the world celebrates them every year? I am sure there are thousands of women, even here in Dar es Salaam, who are not aware of what is going on today. Invaluable contribution They are not aware that March is the month that has been set aside to recognise their roles to the society as mothers, wives, daughters, caregivers, and all the invaluable contribution they make to Tanzania’s development. The celebrations will be meaningless if, year in and year out, we sideline these women, who are the major producers of the food that the nation consumes. It’s time we focused on these forgotten and unsung heroines by making them a part of the celebrations. It’s time to improve their lives and welfare. They could be less educated, jobless, self-employed, small-holder farmers, or housewives, but their contribution to the country’s economy and welfare cannot be underestimated. Most of these women shoulder the bulk of the load, but they only receive little or no return. They are the wives who take care of our children, extended families, and our elderly parents. They are also the househelps that take charge while we chase money, and the list is long. A good number of them are now heads of families due to divorce, abandonment, or death of the husband. Data shows that the percentage of female-headed households reached its highest figure between 2017 and 2018, at 28 percent, as compared to 25 percent between 2007 and 2012. To make ends meet, most of these women have been falling into the debt trap—taking loans with very high-interest from loan sharks. Many end up with a heavy debt burden. The government should find ways to take these women out of bondage, considering that they can take this country far in terms of development if given the chance.