Dar es Salaam. Four goals scored by Jean Baleke, Kennedy Juma, Mohammed Mussa and Jimson Mwanuke were enough for Simba to record a 4-0 victory over African Sports of Tanga and qualify for the quarterfinals of the Azam Sports Federation Cup. The match, held at the Uhuru Stadium in Dar es Salaam, saw Baleke scoring in the 36th minute after he was set clear by Pape Ousmane Sakho before Juma nailing the second in the 47th minute in the seemed one sided encounter. Mussa scored in the 69th and the fourth goal was scored in the 90th minute by Jimson Mwanuke. African Sports, led by experienced Aziz Gila, created various scoring chances in the encounter, but Msimbazi Street giants’ goalkeeper Beno Kakolanya and defenders cleared all. The competition will continue today, whereby the defending champions, Young Africans (Yanga), will at 7pm be facing Tanzania Prisons of Mbeya at the Azam Complex in the city. Apart from the encounter, Geita Gold FC will host Green Warriors of Dar es Salaam at the Nyankumbu ground in Geita while Singida Big Stars will meet JKT Tanzania at the Liti Stadium in Singida. The matches are very important for all the eight teams in order for them to qualify for the quarterfinals of the competition. Speaking on the eve of the match, Yanga head coach Nesreddine Nabi said he is confident that he will conquer the game and eliminate the prison officers. “We have the obligation of winning every match, starting with Tanzania Prisons. It is our responsibility to make our fans happy toward defending the title,” said Nabi. “So, I am looking forward to winning this match, my players will be 100 per cent committed on the pitch. I understand that we are going to face one of the best teams in the tournament, but we are the best team to sail through,” he said. For his part, Tanzania Prisons head coach Abdallah Mohamed said they have prepared well for the game and their target is to win. “Yanga are a tough team and are in top form. We are taking the encounter seriously and believe we will fulfil our target,” said Mohamed.