Dar es Salaam. Environmental stakeholders yesterday expressed the need for financial institutions to join their forces in mobilising funds to offer financial solutions that will address environmental and social challenges. The call that is meant to lessen the impact of climate change was made here yesterday during the unveiling of the Standard Chartered Bank ‘Here for Good: A Sustainable Future for Tanzania’ Report. According to the World Health Organisation (WHO), climate change is already impacting health in a myriad of ways, including by leading to death and illness from increasingly frequent extreme weather events. Some weather events include heat waves, storms and floods, the disruption of food systems, increases in zoonosis and food-, water- and vector-borne diseases, and mental health issues. Standard Chartered Chief Executive Officer Herman Kasekende said many companies were grappling with the challenge of capital to improve their operations in a sustainable manner. Citing the example of investment in clean alternative energy sources, he said the required massive investments were too high to be afforded by many companies. “Capital expenditure is required to improve the companies’ operations with a view to reducing carbon emissions,” said Mr Kasekende in a panel discussion. He said on a global scale, the Standard Chartered Group last year pledged to mobilise $300 billion from the development partners for sustainable finance by 2030. “This amount is purposefully for the emerging markets and developing countries especially from Africa, Middle East and Asia,” he said. “Being a responsible company, we have focused on finding new ways to increase operational efficiency and have committed to achieving net-zero emissions from our operations using renewable energy sources by 2025,” reads a part of the bank’s new report. Tanzania Railways Corporation (TRC) director general Masanja Kadogosa expressed the need for the government and private sector to cling together in order to enhance sustainable business to reduce the impact of climate change, which is real. “Sustainable practices should be embedded in our culture rather than put in books,” noted Mr Kadogosa, adding, that is why the government decided to come up with the electrified railway lines. He went on to add: “We need to balance between the presence and future and this can happen by doing business in a sustainable manner.” He expressed the need to ensure huge projects do not come with curse. “We need to make sure that whatever we are doing does not adversely affect the community significantly. We must think about the next generation,” recommended Mr Kadogosa. Serengeti Breweries Limited managing director Mark Ocitti said the challenge of financing sustainable business was huge and thus needed concerted efforts to address. “Businesses are facing conflict between profit and sustainability. It is important we work together to overcome the conflict,” noted Mr Ocitti. Expressing the need to act now, he said the effect of climate change is costlier than the costs of embracing sustainable practices. More and more investors acknowledge that investing in companies that do not have a long term strategy in sustainability will be very risky. The Deputy Permanent Secretary in the Vice-President’s Office (Environment), Dr Switbert Mkama, said the report that was launched yesterday showcases what the bank is doing to champion and lead change across the country and businesses. “This is an extremely outstanding effort, and it is incredible to see how the bank has connected its business model to the Sustainable Development Goals,” he said. Adding: “I am particularly impressed by the progress that has been made in sustainable finance and how the bank leverages on its partnerships in assisting the government’s transition to a low carbon economy.”