Here’s your morning news update: An easy-to-read selection of our top stories. Stay up to date with The Citizen – More News, Your Way. The Electoral Commission has published donations in accordance with the legislative requirements on the publication of political parties for the third quarter of 2022/23 financial year. The commission said in a statement on Tuesday that a total of five political parties have declared donations amounting to R40 050 925.54. READ MORE: Political party funding: Two organisations donate combined R30 million to ANC Almost three weeks since President Cyril Ramaphosa declared a national state of disaster to respond to the country’s energy crisis, government has finally published the regulations related to the Disaster Management Act. Cooperative Governance and Traditional Affairs (Cogta) Minister Dr Nkosazana Dlamini Zuma on Monday signed the new regulations into law, and they were published in the Government Gazette. READ MORE: National state of disaster: Here are the details of how govt plans to deal with load shedding Eskom has announced a mixed bag of load shedding as it battles to keep the lights on. The crumbling state-owned entity said the deliberate power cuts will be implemented at different stages. Menzi Mngomezulu, Eskom’s Crisis Communication Manager, said they will publish another update as soon as any significant changes occur. READ MORE: Eskom imposes mixed bag of load shedding until further notice Reality TV star Musa Mseleku has hit ‘Slay Queen’ and musician Queen Lolly (real name Nomfundo Shezi) with a lawyers letter after she went on a popular podcast and implied that she had slept with Mseleku and had video evidence to back her claims.  According to a report by IOL, she made these claims on the Omakhwapheni Podcast where she had a chat with controversial gossip blogger Musa Khawula about her sex life. READ MORE: Musa Mseleku lawyers up against ‘slay queen’ who made sex tape claims Word reaching Phakaaathi is that Andile Jali looks set to stay at Mamelodi Sundowns, as the club are believed to be preparing a new deal for the influential midfielder. ALSO READ: Former Chiefs star slowly forgetting about football Jali’s current deal expires at the end of the season and we have been informed that the player’s camp have not yet entertained any interest from other clubs as their priority is to keep Jali at Sundowns. READ MORE: Sundowns preparing new offer for Andile Jali