The South African Weather Service (SAWS) has warned of extremely high fire danger conditions overmost parts of the Northern Cape and Letsemeng local Municipality in the Free State, on Tuesday. Scattered afternoon showers and thundershowers are expected in Gauteng. Gauteng Tomorrow 's Weather overview: 07/03/2023 pic.twitter.com/hcH65xqHqj— SA Weather Service (@SAWeatherServic) March 6, 2023 According to weather service, residents should watch out for localised flooding of susceptible informal settlements, low-lying roads/areas, poor driving conditions due to pooling of water on roads and reduced visibility. Gauteng: Cloudy and warm with scattered afternoon showers and thundershowers, but hot in places in the north. The expected UVB sunburn index: Extreme. Mpumalanga: Morning fog patches along the escarpment, otherwise cloudy and warm to hot with isolated showers and thundershowers, except in the Lowveld. Limpopo: Morning fog patches along the escarpment, otherwise cloudy and cool to warm with isolated showers and thundershowers, except in the east. North West: Cloudy and warm to hot with scattered showers and thundershowers, but isolated in the west. ALSO READ: Volatile price action, freak weather contribute to consumer panic Free State: Cloudy and warm with scattered showers and thundershowers. Northern Cape: Fine and very hot in the north, otherwise partly cloudy and warm to hot, with isolated afternoon showers and thundershowers in the east and south. The wind along the coast will be light south-westerly, but moderate to fresh south-westerly from the afternoon until the evening. Western Cape: Cloudy with morning fog patches over the southern mountains, otherwise partly cloudy and cool to warm with scattered afternoon showers and thundershowers, but isolated morning showers and thundershowers in the north-east. The wind along the coast will be moderate to fresh south-easterly to easterly but strong north of cape point spreading along the south coast during the afternoon. The expected UVB sunburn index: High. Western half of the Eastern Cape: Cool in places, otherwise cloudy and warm with scattered showers and thundershowers, but isolated light showers and rain along the coast. The wind along the coast will be Light westerly east of Algoa Bay at first, otherwise light to moderate easterly, but fresh to strong in places in the afternoon. ALSO READ: As weather catastrophes become more common being underinsured can be devastating Eastern half of the Eastern Cape: Warm in places, otherwise cloudy and cool with scattered afternoon showers and thundershowers, but isolated in the south-east. The wind along the coast will be Light to moderate westerly, becoming north-easterly in the afternoon. KwaZulu-Natal: Morning fog patches over the interior, otherwise cloudy and warm with isolated showers and rain. The wind along the coast will be gentle to moderate south-easterly north of Richard’s Bay, otherwise moderate southerly to south-westerly.  It will become moderate north-easterly south of Richard’s Bay by late afternoon. The expected UVB sunburn index: Very High.