Dar es Salaam. Simba Sports Club host Uganda’s Vipers FC today in a CAF Champions League Group C match at Benjamin Mkapa Stadium in Dar es Salaam. Another Group C match also scheduled for today pits hosts Horoya AC of Guinea against Morocco’s Raja CA in Conakry. Both matches will kick off at 7pm Tanzanian time. Simba are placed third in Group C with three points from as many matches, while Vipers are bottom with only a point to show from their first three outings. Raja top the group with maximum nine points from three matches and already have one foot in the quarterfinals, while Horoya are second with four points and will take a huge step towards the knockout stage if they defeat the Moroccan side. Simba lost 1-0 to Horoya in Conakry before crashing to a 3-0 defeat at the hands of Raja in Dar Salaam. They registered their first win when they defeated Vipers 1-0 in Entebbe on February 25. Simba head coach Roberto Oliveira alias Robertinho said yesterday that they are targeting victory in order to continue with their winning streak and search for a last eight spot. “We need to do our best in the encounter, Vipers are a strong team who are also targeting to emerge victorious. But we have also prepared our players for victory,” Robertinho said. Robertinho said every player know the importance of the match and they are in top morale. “It is another deciding match for us. We need victory and not otherwise, I am happy that players are in top morale and ready to fight hard and record the best result,” he said. For his part, Vipers head Coach Beto Bianchi said his players are in high spirits, and are ready to do their best against Simba. Bianchi said that, although they are facing a challenging task against giants Simba SC, they nonetheless hope to win the encounter. “It will be tough match and my players ready to face challenges from Simba. We have committed players who are ready to do their best,” said Bianchi. He added that it is not going to be an easy game, saying they are facing one of the best teams in the league and they will have to be well-focused throughout the encounter.