Dar es Salaam. The promise of a new Tanzania was apparent yesterday when President Samia Suluhu Hassan presided at a symposium of the women’s wing of the opposition Chadema in Moshi. She reminded Chadema members and supporters that building a democratic nation was everybody’s responsibility. “It takes two to tango,” said President Hassan as she sought to send across her message of “4Rs” (Reconciliation, Resiliency, Reforms and Rebuilding). She admitted that striking a conciliatory tone between the CCM-led government and the Opposition had not been a walk in the park, saying it was not something that could be easily embraced by hardliners in both the ruling party and Chadema. “It’s a new concept. I know it’s not easy to come up with a new culture and expect it to be widely accepted overnight,” President Hassan told the gathering attended by members of the women’s wing of Chadema, popularly known by its Kiswahili acronym Bawacha. “On my side (CCM), there are obstacles. On the Opposition’s side there are hindrances too.”  She gave an example of her decision to lift the ban on opposition political rallies, saying it was not readily accepted by some of her fellow CCM members. Despite the challenges encountered on the way, she promised to create a new nation that offered ample room for civilised competitive politics. “That is where we should go no matter what,” the Head of State said, adding, “Those who are hindering us will start dancing to our tune after seeing the fruits of the changes we are striving to adopt.” She emphasised the need for dialogue rather than confrontation, saying  nothing was impossible when it came to amicable discourse. President Hassan said putting aside ideological differences would help to take the nation to new heights. “All political parties, irrespective of their ideologies, should work together in building a nation with a strong inclusive economy.” Echoing the President’s remarks, Chadema national chairman Freeman Mbowe said they were ready to work closely with the government in the best interests of the nation. “Over the past six years, we, the Opposition, went through very tough times. However, we are ready to forgive and forget the past,” he said. Mr Mbowe added that they were ready to forgive because the President had shown a genuine intention to break from the “dark past”. He said, however, that the Head of State’s good deeds should be buttressed and safeguarded by the Constitution. This, Mr Mbowe added, would help to guide future leaders. “I’m optimistic that your goal of bringing together the nation will be shared by your subordinates. We want leaders who fear God. We also want to have a nation that respects democratic tenets.” Noting that no nation has prospered by abandoning democracy and embracing tyranny, Mr Mbowe said there was no substitute for  democracy. “We want our leaders to be popularly elected and this is only possible if we hold free and fair elections,” he said. Chadema secretary-general John Mnyika said a new constitution and independent electoral commission were key to setting the foundation for true democracy. “This country belongs to the people. The main political parties must listen to them and seriously consider what they want,” he said.  Mr Mnyika added that he was confident the current cordial relations between the  government and Opposition parties would be maintained to herald a brighter future for the country and its people. “A new chapter has been opened. We will keep moving forward until we make it,” he said.  Bawacha national chairperson Sharifa Suleiman urged the government to address economic hardships Tanzanians were grappling with. “The cost of living is too high and it is women and children who are bearing the brunt of this situation. “The government should intervene and take urgent measures to bring down prices of essential commodities,” she said The government, Ms Suleiman added, could do so by reducing or scrapping unnecessary taxes on businesses to ease the burden on consumers. President Hassan said the government was already working on all matters highlighted by Chadema leaders. 