Arusha.  It was a gesture of hospitality befitting a host nation, as Tanzania donated more land to the regional bodies based in Arusha. While the East African Community (EAC) got an additional 125 acres for its expanding projects, a body affiliated with it, the East African Business Council (EABC), got three hectares. The title deeds of the two plots were officially handed over to the CEOs of the two organisations by President Samia Suluhu Hassan on Friday. Dr Peter Mathuki, the EAC secretary general, lauded the gesture of the Tanzanian government for the offer, saying the plot would be used for expansion. “This would, thus, enable the EAC to deliver on its mission of widening and deepening economic, political, social, and cultural integration,” he said. The donated land is at Kisongo along the Dodoma road, some seven kilometres from the Arusha city centre and not very far from the Arusha airport. After receiving the title deed, Dr Mathuki held talks with President Hassan, through which the Head of State was updated on the integration project. These, according to a dispatch from the EAC, included trade and infrastructure projects as well as peace and security updates. President Hassan, who has been here for days for the government leaders’ retreat, was also briefed on the welfare of the EAC staff, the majority of whom reside in Arusha. Later, the Head of State handed over land to the EABC, an apex body of private sector associations also based in Arusha. The title deed for plot of land No. 4/2 situated at Mateves, south west of the city, was handed over to EABC executive director John Bosco Kalisa. The land offered will be used by the regional business body to construct its permanent headquarters. EABC was set up in 1997, with Arusha as its seat. Mr Kalisa said the donation of land was timely in that it would enable the organisation to fast-track its long-desired headquarters project. The donation will enable the EABC to build its headquarters in Arusha “which is also the headquarters of the community.” This, according to him, will enable the business body to execute its mandate “as the voice of the private sector in East Africa.” EABC’s mission is to advocate for a conducive business environment and promote sustainable private sector-led growth in the region. Mr Kalisa added that the land donation was a testimony of President Hassan’s commitment to championing closer trade ties within East Africa. Other regional bodies based in Arusha were also handed over title deeds to land to enable them to construct their permanent headquarters. Arusha has dozens of international, continental (Africa), and regional organisations, many of which have constructed their permanent headquarters. These include the EAC, Pan African Postal Union (Papu), Eastern, Central, and Southern Africa Health Community (Ecsa), and the Eastern and Southern Africa Management Institute (Esami). The government recently offered 25 acres of land at Lakilaki, also along the Dodoma Road, for the headquarters project of the African Court on Human and People’s Rights (AfCHPR).