Over the years career growth is enhanced by experience and the ability to, seamlessly, transition to different roles within or without the organisation. This has been the case for Mwanaisha Kejo, an IT professional with 23 years of experience in telecommunications, banking and information technology sectors. She is currently the Head of ICT Projects and Digital Channel Support at the CRDB Bank Plc. She joined CRDB in 2000 as a branch Super User Manager. After almost four years in that position she got transferred to the Head Office to join the team of ICT system administrators. Her main roles were to take care of ATM/POS switch and card management systems. Her unique perspective in using Information Technology to achieve business objectives boosted her career ascent as she was soon promoted to Principal ICT Officer. “In 2014 I was again promoted to Supervisor in Card Systems. My responsibility was to lead the team handling card systems,” she says. Three years later more responsibilities were added to her when she was made Business Manager with roles on business applications and payment systems including swift. In 2017 Mwanaisha was given new roles as Manager Business Application, and continued to demonstrate commitment to the Bank’s objectives through excellence and professionalism. By this time promotion had become a staple in her career path, because in 2019 she was once more kicked upstairs to the Senior Manager Digital Channels Support position. One year later she was given more responsibilities as Head of ICT Projects and Digital Channel Support, the position she is still holding. “I was trusted because of my commitment and performance,” she notes. She leads a team which is responsible for digital channel and ICT projects. Her job is to ensure that customers can access banking services and products 24/7. “That is what digital channels mean; enabling customers to access banking services at their pleasure using their digital devices at any given time, anywhere. Mwanaisha describes herself as a proud mother, smart, committed and passionate career woman in ICT and digital space. She says mentorship has helped her a lot in climbing the corporate ladder. Because mentors don’t judge or scold a person, they are in a good position to understand one’s potential and shape one’s career path. This is critical in achieving what one wants in the corporate world, she explains. On attaining a healthy work life balance Mwanaisha admits that it is not easy, especially for a single mother like herself. Caring for children, while at the same time making sure she fulfills all her work responsibilities is challenging. But she is quite comfortable in the male dominated corporate world. In fact she advises other women to get out of the ‘feel sorry, can’t do’ mentality because they can perform any responsibilities as better as men can. She says she is able to seat in meetings with men, present her work and share her ideas confidently. She believes that any woman can do any kind of a job. It is fear, which is the enemy to lots of women with high potential to excel in the male dominated workplaces, according to Mwanaisha. That fear needs to be overcome because women possess all the necessary skills needed to reach the top of the food chain in the corporate jungle. What they need in order to be able to get there is a bit of mentorship. Coaching is important in helping women nurture their career growth and become what one wants to be. Mwanaisha’s main motivation is being able to succeed in whatever she does. “If I am able to deliver on time and make the customer happy, I feel motivated and wake up ready for the next day,” she intimates. “I want my children to be happy and proud of their mother that is why I do the best for them. A good working environment here at the CRDB also motivates me,” she says. The Bank has done a lot in empowering women. She credits the Director of ICT Deusdedit Massuka for championing women empowerment at the work place. She also appreciates CRDB Managing Director for supporting the Bank’s women empowerment agenda. “Mr Abdulmajid Nsekela, our MD, always encourages us to apply for top job positions whenever they are advertised internally. He has also created a conducive atmosphere that enables all of us to share our ideas openly, and the good thing is that the shared ideas are always taken very seriously,” Mwanaisha narrates. “We always need men in any conversation about empowerment, because their support is crucial,” she adds. She recalls that when she lost her husband is was the men who were at the forefront in pushing her and supporting her in her career. Her advice to young people starting their careers is to pray and always be grateful to God. They have to work hard and smarter and be committed to their jobs. They should not relax, should always learn new things and be able to showcase their successes.