Dar es Salaam. A professional boxing icon in the country, Hassan Mwakinyo, after staying out of the boxing game for about six months, is now set to get into the boxing ring on April 22 at the Jamhuri stadium in Dodoma against a South African pugilist. The bout has been organized by female boxing promoter in the country Sophia Mwakagenda, who is the managing director of the Lady in Red Boxing Promotion Company. Mwakinyo last fought on September 3 last year against British boxer Liam Smith in Liverpool and lost by TKO in the fourth round. Mwakagenda said they have started preparations of the fight aimed to collect funds for buying 40,000 sanitary pads for girl students in Southern Highlands regions namely Iringa, Mbeya, Njombe and Ruvuma. She said they are now in negotiations with the South African pugilist who will be known soon after signing a contract. “I cannot reveal the boxer due to the agreements we have reached. He and others will be announced later,” said Mwakagenda. She said they are expecting an exciting event that day following the number of top professional boxers who have been lined ahead of it. “We expect to have a strong and exciting fights that day. We are looking forward to having fans of professional boxing, MPs and various government leaders in the event. We urge sponsors to come forward and make this event successful,” said Mwakagenda. For his part, Mwakinyo said he is expecting to return with all his strength, expressing that he is well prepared for the fight and will show his ability. “It’s true that I haven’t fought for a couple of months and a lot has been said about me, now I’m coming back with all my strength to erase all the negative thoughts against me. In short, I don’t fight to make some people happy... I do it to develop my talent,” said Mwakinyo. The Tanga based Boxer noted that he has started preparations for the fight and promises Tanzanians to do well if he fights for the first time in Dodoma. Meanwhile, Mwakinyo has congratulated President Samia Suluhu Hassan on her efforts of developing sports and bringing great enthusiasm. He expressed that the appointment of the Deputy Minister for Culture, Arts and Sports, Hamis Mwinjuma, has increased enthusiasm in sports, Arts and Culture, noting that the presidential appointee is fit for the docket.