By Dharini Bajaria In order to encourage advocacy for women’s advancement, International Women’s Day is celebrated on March 8. The day is a time to reflect on progress made, call for change and to celebrate acts of courage and determination by ordinary women who have played an extraordinary role in the history of their countries and communities. The theme is gender equality in innovation and technology. Women and girls represent almost half of the world’s population and therefore also half of its potential. Improving the status of women and girls in society can accelerate and strengthen efforts toward better governance, health outcomes, and sustainable development. It is impossible to think of a suitable future wherein the rights, dignities, and capabilities of half of the world’s population are neglected. For example, in Tanzania only 25 percent women hold tech jobs and girls comprise only 10 percent of students earning degrees in computer science (according to Their world (a global children’s charity)), a reflection not just of barriers in affordability and lack of technological literacy but also inherent biases and socio-cultural norms that lead to gender-based digital exclusion. Gender equality in technology remains a global challenge but achieving better gender balance is not just a question of social inclusion but also of broader economic benefits. For example, the reduction of barriers for individuals to realize their potential not only reduces inequality but it also increases economic performance – hence the term ‘inclusive or sustainable growth’. Where growth is not inclusive, adverse outcomes such as the cost of unemployment are borne by everyone, from individuals, the community, and all levels of government, with the costs ranging from foregone income to welfare payments, foregone taxation revenue, and higher incidences of crime and poorer health and education outcomes. Social inclusion can yield various economic benefits such as increased productivity at the workplace, improved employment outcomes, improvement in mental and physical health, reduced cost of social service, and inclusive growth. According to Dora Semkwiji, Assistant Research Fellow, Economic and Social Research Foundation (ESRF), the Government of Tanzania has established a number of strategies and plans to promote social inclusion for women. These include strengthening funds for providing loans to women, removing discriminatory laws against women, ensuring unconditional employment in terms of gender, encouraging women to acquire economic power by involving them in various economic activities, provision of free health services to older people, children, and pregnant women. There is also a business imperative. In particular, businesses that do not have sufficient gender diversity at various levels of seniority may miss out on the diversity of opinions, perspectives and innovative ideas that they might otherwise have - and if so, then underperform in terms of growth. Indeed, the evidence does demonstrate that organizations that practise diversity are likely to be more successful as they can then leverage the best talent and with that realise optimal business performance. Indeed, research shows that organizations with inclusive cultures are six times more innovative and agile, eight times as likely to achieve better business results and twice as likely to meet or exceed financial targets than organizations with less diversity in the workplace. After all, in today’s business environment, meaningful innovations happen at cross-borders of different disciplines, and it is generally well understood that diversity of expertise and experience help spur innovation. But why is the diversity of race, ethnicity and gender equally important? Well, people who are different from one another in the race and gender dimensions do bring to the table unique information and experiences. This diversity of information brings a broader perspective which creates a positive tension within the group and that tension increases creativity. Of course, working in diverse groups is not easy. It requires individuals to adjust their own behaviour and working styles, something that many of us may find uncomfortable. But more innovation and a better product or service will eventually emerge from this hard work. And, by the way, who said that innovation was easy? Together, let’s keep working towards addressing the barriers of women accessing equal rights for a sustainable tomorrow. Dharini Bajaria is an Associate, Human Capital at Pwc Tanzania   