Dar es Salaam. Despite ongoing public awareness campaigns on contraception, a recent report has revealed notable disparities on how various communities view the topic. In its 2022 Tanzania Demographic and Health Survey and Malaria Indicator Survey (2022 TDHS-MIS), the National Bureau of Statistics (NBS) shows the extent to which various communities have adopted contraception use, with experts attributing the differences to diverse cultural and religious beliefs. Overall, the report estimates that 38 percent of married women use various contraception methods. Thirty-one percent use modern methods, which is a huge improvement from the 20 percent usage indicated in the 2005 TDHS report. Modern methods include oral contraceptive pills, implants, injectables, patches, vaginal rings, Intrauterine devices, condoms and male and female sterilisation. Seven percent of married women use traditional ways, which include the calendar method and withdrawal. According to data compiled in the national population and housing censuses of 2012 and 2022, low contraception use in some regions has not necessarily translated into a sharp population increase. For instance, in Kilimanjaro Region, with 62.8 percent contraception usage among married women, the population increase in ten years has been 35 percent, while in Mbeya, with 57.9 percent usage, the population increase was only 14 percent. North Unguja Region, with 18.7 percent contraception use, the population increase since 2012 has been recorded at 88 percent, and Tabora, with 20.7 percent usage, the population has increased by 98 percent. In North Pemba, with 21 percent contraception use among married women, the population grew by 47 percent in ten years, while in Katavi, where contraception is at 21.6 percent, the population nearly trebled after increasing by 182 percent. Areas with low usage of contraception often have high population increases due to a lack of access to contraception or limited education on family planning, which can result in higher birth rates, which can be compounded by shorter life expectancies and higher fertility rates within the population. The head of the Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology at the Muhimbili University of Health and Allied sciences (Muhas), Dr Peter Wangwe, says without adequate access to contraception and education on family planning, people may struggle to make informed decisions about their reproductive health, leading to an increase in the number of pregnancies. “Urban women usually have more access to modern contraception methods and have better access to healthcare services that provide contraception. They are also more knowledgeable about family planning due to higher literacy and education rates,” he said. Dr Wangwe adds that in contrast, women in rural regions are often less informed about contraception methods and may lack access to reproductive health care services as a result of cultural attitudes in rural societies. “Some cultural norms, such as pride in having a large number of children, or religious beliefs that stigmatise contraception may also cause low usage,” he said. In Tanzania, more effective methods of contraception have become available due to increased access to contraceptives and improvements in contraception technology, with government policies having expanded access to contraception. NBS data shows that 45 percent of sexually active, unmarried women in Tanzania use various methods of contraception, with 36 percent using modern methods and 8 percent using traditional ways. Implants are now the most commonly used contraception method followed by injectables. Although contraception use is still low and growing, the survey shows that awareness of modern contraception methods among women is at more than 90 percent. Regional Psychosocial Support Initiative (REPSSI) country director Edwick Mapalala told The Citizen that the number of early pregnancies was higher in rural areas with low usage of contraception. “In addition, cultural beliefs and stigma in rural areas can limit young people’s ability to access and use these resources. Low incomes and poverty can also limit access to contraception, leading to higher rates of unwanted pregnancies,” she said. Ms Mapalala added that reproductive health education is important for young people to understand their own bodies and make informed decisions about their sexual health. “Our childcare system has changed nowadays with tech and globalisation. It is important to strengthen reproductive health education, especially among young people and help them to understand the risks of early pregnancies and unplanned parenthood. They need to learn about available contraception options to help prevent unintended pregnancies,” she said. Education can also foster communication between parents and children so that they can talk openly and comfortably about sexual health and contraception and enable individuals to make smart and safe choices when it comes to their reproductive health, Ms Mapalala added. Moreover increasing age-appropriate information, access, and use of contraceptives amongst sexually active young people aged 10 – 24 years is one of the strategic priorities of the government, as stipulated in the National Family Planning Implementation Plan 2019-2023.