Last week I commented about the Mo Ibrahim Prize and specifically gave the example of how Tanzania has hopelessly failed to present any worthy candidates for consideration. Had the late President Benjamin Mkapa only effected the things he wrote about in his autobiography such as political competition, he stood an excellent chance of being the first winner of the prize in 2007. Big Ben existed State House in 2005. With such hefty money available after serving the nation, no one would need to over-burden the poor Tanzanian taxpayer with a law that guarantees a former president a palatial home built by the state. Our leadership has for the most part comported itself in the most insensitive manner since the time Mwalimu Nyerere stepped down as head of state. Some years ago I actually put forward the view that given all the stern talk from Nyerere as the father of the nation in the sunset of Mwinyi’s presidency, he might just as well have taken it upon himself to do a Mahathir-style political comeback. Dr Mahathir Mohammed was the hugely transformative PM of Malaysia. Putting aside this seemingly far-fetched thought, the worst aspect of the conduct of state of affairs back then was the furtive manner the ship was being captained. There was even an attempt at extending the term of office of Mwinyi though Nyerere thwarted it in its tracks. We were never told exactly what was the motivation behind it. One can only read an ill-motive. Tanzania would have found itself in uncharted waters with such an amendment. The implications would also have been that the quest for a third term in the year 2000 by the then-president of Zanzibar, Salmin Amour, would have been plain sailing. These acts in themselves manifested an immature leadership, to say the least. I feel obliged to give an example of a mature case in Africa that I’m familiar with. I’m talking here of Namibia where I lived between 1991-92. My memories of the then-newly-independent country are pleasant in the main. The founding president of Namibia is Samuel Shafiishuna Daniel Nujoma. I reckon he is the only remaining one of the founding fathers still alive and according to a notable Tanzanian source who met him last year, has not lost his spirit on SADC’s integration. I cite Nujoma for a reason. I remember vividly how when I was living there, an agenda for gifting him with an additional term of office cropped up. Nujoma had come to power at a time when term limits were seen as the way to go in Africa. It is quite an irony that Tanzania was thinking of heading in the opposite direction about the same time. I must add that I recall a certain disquiet in parts of Namibia’s press and even beyond their borders. Nujoma himself when asked about it, stated in no uncertain terms the fundamental reason for his SWAPO party wishing upon him a third term. The amendments were subsequently carried through and Nujoma had his third term as president until 2005. That was when it came to an end. I wish to underline precisely that. The clear understanding was that Nujoma was being honoured with a third term of office and not limitless years. And when the hour came to depart the stage, there were no calls from party functionaries that he ‘go on and on and on’ as Lady Margaret Thatcher in the UK had memorably intimated. It is etched in my memory how in Zambia, during the reign of its first president, Kenneth Kaunda, his UNIP stalwarts would chant KK wamuyaya meaning KK forever. It would not be stretching it in the realm of politics to imagine certain designs emerging here and there. We only have to look at China and Xi Jinping to learn more. That president may be on the scene for a long time to come! Namibia’s overall handling of Nujoma’s third term displayed political maturity of the highest order. I conclude by saying that despite Nyerere helping to steady the ship, he also curiously threw a spanner in the works of our political maturation process. Nyerere had come out resolutely to argue in his book published in the lead-up to 1995 that those advocating for the impeachment of Mwinyi were acting irresponsibly. In his words: “But you cannot shake the President without rocking the State itself. It is important for this reality to be clearly articulated and thoroughly understood; for some people go around whispering about the responsibility of the President for something as if this were a very light matter. To be forced to impeach a President is a very serious matter for any country...” A ‘serious matter’ indeed it is but if hard lessons can be drawn for the sake of posterity, then I’m all in favour of it. There will always be a reference point for the citizenry, especially in a country devoid of sectarianism. It is striking just how the situation in 1995 was frightfully similar to when Mwinyi’s protégé, Jakaya Kikwete, was nearing his own completion of office. One though would be hard-pressed today to find any Tanzanians who believe in the power of impeachment. Even when Magufuli was driving us to Armageddon, the opposition in the National Assembly never deemed it fit to formally test our constitutional mechanisms yet they existed. When ever then will an impeachment process be instituted? It wasn’t included surely for happy times! In my thinking, Nyerere, being the man who remarked in an interview with a foreign publication how ‘mad people like himself had read the writings of famous European political philosophers’, could have better guided us in this critical aspect of our country’s political maturation.