Deputy President David Mabuza has resigned as a Member of Parliament (MP). African National Congress (ANC) Chief Whip Pemmy Majodina confirmed the resignation on Wednesday, saying Mabuza handed in his resignation letter on Tuesday to National Assembly Speaker Nosiviwe Mapisa-Nqakula. “Parliament confirms that the Deputy President of the Republic of South Africa, Mr David Mabuza, has tendered his resignation as a Member of Parliament to the Speaker of the National Assembly.  “The resignation of Mr Mabuza, who during his tenure also served as the leader of government business, was received on 28 February 2023, and is effective immediately,” Parliament said in a statement.  Mabuza’s resignation comes as President Cyril Ramaphosa is expected to reshuffle his Cabinet soon. ALSO READ: Cabinet reshuffle issues to be ‘wrapped up’ by the end of February, says Mbalula ANC deputy president Paul Mashatile, who was worn in as a MP earlier last month, is widely expected to take over Mabuza’s position at the Union Buildings in Tshwane.  Mashatile was elected ANC deputy president after Mabuza declined nomination for the ANC’s deputy presidency at the governing party’s 55th national conference in December. Mabuza had already informed Ramaphosa of his wish to step down as the country’s deputy president following the ANC conference. However, Ramaphosa asked him to remain in his role “until such time the modalities of his departure and transition have been finalised”. The Presidency said Mabuza’s resignation meant that his term as the country’s deputy president had officially come to an end. In a statement on Wednesday, Ramaphosa’s spokesperson Vincent Magwenya said the president would make an announcement in due course about the appointment of his new deputy. Ramaphosa also extended his gratitude and appreciation to Mabuza for his “exceptional service” to the country over the last five years. “The deputy president has undertaken the responsibilities of his office with dedication. I am grateful for the support he has provided to me throughout his term and for the leadership he has provided to the work of government,” said Ramaphosa. He added: “His contribution has been valued by the many constituencies with which he has engaged, including traditional leaders, military veterans, civil society formations and international bodies.  “As leader of government business, he has ably managed the relationship between the executive and Parliament, working to ensure that the transformative legislative programme of this administration is advanced.” NOW READ: Paul Mashatile sworn in as MP ahead of expected Cabinet reshuffle