Dar es Salaam. One of the more serious environmental and health hazards, noise pollution, remains rampant in residential areas despite mixed efforts to tame the vice. From religious institutions to unregulated entertainment and recreation centers, uncontrolled noise is putting residents at what experts describe as the risk of suffering from stress, heart problems, deafness, and other related effects. According to the European Environmental Agency (EEA, 2018), noise pollution is one of the causes of premature death in children. The National Environment Management Council (Nemc) Eastern and Northern Zone manager, Mr Arnold Mapinduzi, said that they receive a number of complaints from the public about noise pollution from pubs, churches, mosques, and industrial areas. “Noise pollution has been present in Dar es Salaam and various parts of the country. The number of people reporting noise pollution has sharply increased. Something, we [Nemc] consider a positive thing as it tells us that people are now aware of the effects,” he said. Despite the fact that the reported cases are increasing, the noise is still increasing. “The increase of noise pollution in most residential, industrial, and business areas is due to the increased use of modern sound technologies in churches, bars, and other entertainment areas,” he said. In the 2021/22 financial year, Nemc recorded a 65 percent increase in the cases of noise pollution and vibration complaints. Mr Mapinduzi also said the number of people submitting complaints is expected to double in 2023. According to him, the Environmental Management Act of 2004 and its 2015 regulations on the noise pollution and vibrations originating from industries allow city councils, district offices, regional administration secretaries, and ward executives to monitor and prohibit various activities that could affect people with noises that exceed the allowed levels. In hospitals and libraries, the maximum sound pressure allowed is 45 decibels (dBAs) during the day and 35 dBAs at night, he said. In residential and business areas, maximum sound is 55 dBA during the day and 45 dBA at night. In industrial areas, the allowed sound is 70 dBA during the day and 60 dBA at night. Mr Mapinduzi stressed that noise pollution causes high blood pressure, deafness, and reduced thinking capacity, especially in children whose brain development becomes impaired. He urged various authorities to play their roles to control noise pollution, adding that Nemc cannot be everywhere. The Nemc Director General, Mr Samuel Gwamaka, also said local government authorities have the mandate to make close follow-up. He said Nemc sometimes intervenes and works at the local government level to strengthen efforts to reduce noise pollution. “Local government authorities should tell us if they have failed to implement their duties so that the council can help them,” he said. Dar es Salaam City Council Environment Officer, Ms Theresia Dennis, said the issue of noise pollution was within their mandate and they were given authority to supervise and inspect areas depending on localities. “By collaborating with local government officials, environment officers inspect various areas to ensure there is no noise pollution. Sometimes they involve Nemc to intervene if the issue looks complex,” she said. She said that currently they have requested the office of the city council director purchase the decibel meters so that it could be easy for them to measure the sound levels. According to her, bar and church owners have the responsibility to install soundproofing or purchase decibel meters to regulate and adjust the sound from their facilities. A church pastor at Kibaha Living Water, Mr Pascal Mnemwa, said that awareness campaigns are required for mosques, churches, and bar owners to install soundproofing and have access to decibel meters. “Nemc should come up with an awareness campaign and provide seminars to bar owners and churches so that such people can be aware of how to utilise such tools,” he said. In his church, Mr Mnemwa has the machine that regulates sound level whenever a church service is in progress, he said, adding that he decided to buy the device to protect church members and people living around the church. “I did not acquire knowledge from Nemc, but when I visited a foreign country, I saw this as an idea that needs to be implemented in Tanzania. According to him, a number of bars and churches are still playing loud music because most of them are not well informed about the devices. “Noise pollution does not only affect people living near bars and churches; it also affects people inside,” he said. Mr Mnembwa said raising awareness about the effects of noise pollution has not been prioritized, and that could be the reason some entertainment areas keep playing music way beyond the required level. Ms Mary Mushi, a resident of the Tegeta area of Dar es Salaam who lives near a bar, blames the government for not taking stern measures to address the effects of noise pollution. “Even if we report the matter to ward executive officers, nothing happens. I have tried several times to report noise pollution to a ward executive and other local government officials, but nothing has been done. Sometimes I record the sound and send the audio clip to them, but nothing has worked so far,” she said. According to her, the issuing of licenses should be attached with restricted conditions so that people can be held accountable. The Minister of State in the Vice President’s Office—Union and Environment, Mr Suleiman Jafo, recently said it is an offense to produce sound that exceeds the allowed levels. He said they have specified the allowed standard levels in residential, commercial, industrial, and hospital areas to protect the health of people in the community. “The sound level is different for daytime and nighttime. The level of sound during the night must be very low because it is when the community needs time to rest,” he said. Entertain customers Ms Flora Mushi, who owns a pub in Mbezi Africana, said that she was aware of the effect of noise pollution, but her music system was outdated and it could not affect people’s health. Another bar operator who introduced himself by one name, Leonard, said he was not aware of the effect of noise pollution and that he plays loud music to entertain and attract customers. “I know nothing about noise pollution. This business is like any other business; if there is any law that prohibits loud music, it should be made public so that we can be aware of it,” he said. “I don’t think most bar operators are fully informed on issues related to noise pollution. If possible, the government should come up with a campaign to help us learn and understand.” The environmental law restricts noise levels in hospitals, convalescence and old-age homes, sanatoriums, institutions of higher learning, conference rooms, and public libraries at all times. The objective of the regulation is to ensure the maintenance of a healthy environment for all people, the tranquility of their surroundings, and their psychological well-being by regulating noise and vibration levels.