Dar es Salaam. Stakeholders from different sectors have commented on the lack of alignment between the annual celebrations of International Women’s Day and the milestones achieved by and for women in society. Celebrated annually, the theme for International Women’s Day in 2023 is ‘DigitALL: Innovation and technology for gender equality’. This is to align with the global initiative to create inclusivity and equal opportunities in the digital sphere. Head of client solutions at Stanbic Bank, Ms Ester Manase says it’s extremely important to celebrate IWD in the Tanzanian context, and that includes celebrating trailblazers who are advocating for more women in leadership through their own exemplary leadership as well as featuring the unsung heroes. “We are wives, mothers, and small and medium business owners. Much of household and socio-economic activity has been entrusted to us,” Ms Manase mentioned leadership figures who have rewritten history including President Samia Suluhu in the political arena, and NMB Bank Plc’s chief executive Ms Ruth Zaipuna among others. “As for the unsung heroes; more than 50 percent of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) that provide solution for key sectors in Tanzania’s economy are women. More than 70 percent of VICOBAs are women and this gives access to finance to families who are otherwise not bankable,” she said. Ms Manase emphasised that society must understand the immense contribution of women to the economy to appreciate it. “We can give more voice to the initiatives already solving the challenges of girl children and women. These initiatives need support from media to increase their reach, and from the general public in funding and volunteer support to maximise their impact,” she explained. On her part, the vice chair of policy and advocacy commonwealth, Ms Delicia Mwanyika said that commemorating women at this event should be a two-way reflection that shows how far Tanzania and the world have come and the future in which gender equality is evident without questions. “The society has to focus on the past in connection to the future we want for the girl child, where women are not only supported to climb their careers ladder, but also they are self-motivated to truly be part of a society that sees them beyond their genders,” she detailed Chief Executive Officer of KOM foods products, Dr Jesca Nkwabi shared that the International Women’s Day deserved to be an event that highlights the true events that happen in Tanzanian societies. “It should be celebrated in a way that stirs awareness in the minds of both women and men to show the impacts of gender equality across all sectors in a manner that showcases its importance,” she said. The commemorations of International Women’s Day began in 1975 after the United Nations (UN) took it upon itself to sponsor this annual event. Its history goes back to 1909 in the United States as it began in effort to promote women’s rights especially the right to vote in political elections. 