It is commendable that the government plans to repossess some of the abandoned horticulture farms in Arumeru District, Arusha Region, as part of efforts to revive the sub-sector. One of the farms to be repossessed is Kiliflora, which owned two estates totalling more than 300 acres. There are other abandoned farms, but the government cannot act because of pending court cases. Repossession of the farms will go together with payment of terminal benefits to hundreds of workers who lost their jobs when farming activities ground to a halt a few years ago. The government’s intervention has come at the right time. These farms, having stopped operations at the height of the Covid-19 pandemic, cannot remain closed forever. Horticultural activities have much potential right now in job creation and foreign exchange earnings and any suitable and available land should be put to use. In 2022, horticulture earned Tanzania $287 million, while earnings in 2021 were $378.6 million. This is a significant amount and industry stakeholders argue that there is no reason why horticulture should not earn Tanzania more than $1 billion annually in a few years’ time if most of the structural issues are addressed. Another upside is that horticulture produce needs much less land and take less time than traditional farming to produce enough crops to make an economic impact, which is quite agreeable to the youth. However, the sub-sector faces more problems than just abandoned estates. Transportation of the delicate and easily perishable horticultural produce is still a big problem to the extent that operators in the sub-sector have to rely on ports and airports in a neighbouring country for exports. As an example, the major airports that should be used as exit points for horticultural exports, mainly the Julius Nyerere International Airport (JNIA), the Kilimanjaro International Airport (KIA), the Mwanza Airport and the Songwe Airport, need to be equipped with state-of-the-art facilities for handling the produce. Facilities at JNIA, KIA and Mwanza are inadequate and lead to losses for exporters. Songwe Airport, located at the heart of avocado farming activities in the Southern Highlands, has no facilities to handle horticultural produce. The government should overhaul the horticulture sub-sector to unleash its full potential.