Murunwa Makwarela is once again the Tshwane mayor after he produced a notice of insolvency rehabilitation. On Tuesday, Makwarela was disqualified from holding office after it was revealed that the mayor was insolvent. In a statement on Thursday, the City of Tshwane said City Manager Johann Mettler had received the notice from Makwarela and had informed the Independent Electoral Commission (IEC) to withdraw the declaration of a vacancy for his position. It added that as the withdrawal of the vacancy declaration was submitted within 21 days, Makwarela is able to return to his role as Tshwane mayor. “Accordingly, all the benefits and perks accorded to Dr Makwarela as the executive mayor of the City of Tshwane have forthwith been reinstated,” said the statement. STATEMENT: City Manager of Tshwane receives certificate of solvency rehabilitation from Executive Mayor Cllr Dr Murunwa Makwarela. pic.twitter.com/DUwVqsqFKo— Dr Murunwa Makwarela (@tshwane_mayor) March 9, 2023 The mayor was disqualified in terms of Section 47(1)(c) of the Constitution, which states that people who are insolvent cannot hold public office. ALSO READ: Tshwane’s newly-elected mayor Murunwa Makwarela disqualified for being insolvent At the time, Cope was told to submit lists to fill the vacancy. This came seven days after the COPE councillor was elected as Tshwane mayor, with the backing of ANC and EFF councillors. Although Makwarela was accused of failing to disclose his sequestration, on Wednesday he insisted he was still the mayor and would continue working in that role until the correct procedure was followed. ALSO READ: ‘I’m still the Tshwane mayor’, insists Murunwa Makwarela Professor Kgothatso Shai, head of the department of cultural and political studies at the University of Limpopo, said the recent developments were an insult to democracy. “Considering the number of years [Makwarela] has served as a councillor under different administrations, the recent developments are nothing but an insult to our democracy and, in particular, exposes fundamental weaknesses in our clearance systems,” he said. Makwarela had previously served as Tshwane’s speaker. Political analyst Piet Croucamp on Wednesday said Makwarela could be reinstated as Tshwane mayor if he produced a certificate. He said opposition parties will now need to file a motion of no confidence to remove him. “It can become a long process but it seems inevitable that eventually he will be removed,” he said. Additional reporting by Marizka Coetzer