Dar es Salaam. The Tanzania Mainland NBC Premier League continues today at three different venues with Young Africans (Yanga) facing Geita Gold at the Azam Complex from 6.15pm. Today’s fixture also shows that Coastal Unioni will host Singida Big Stars at the Mkwakwani Stadium and Dodoma Jiji FC will play against Polisi Tanzania at the Jamhuri Stadium in Dodoma. The matches are very important for all the teams to win and improve their chances in the league standings. Yanga need to continue with their winning streak in the league, while Geita Gold target to record their fourth win. The Jangwani Street giants are now at the top of the league standings with 62 points from 23 matches while Geita Gold FC target to regain their winning  record after losing 2-1 to Namungo FC, who are placed fifth with 34 points from 24 matches. Yanga assistant head coach Cedric Kaze said they are targeting victory over Geita Gold in order to widen the point gap against other clubs in the Premier League. “We need to be well-focused on the match, as it is not going to be easy, each side are going to be out and out for victory on the football pitch. We want to maintain our winning streak by continuing to win match after match, despite facing opposition,” said Kaze. Yanga are expected to field most of their top players such as Fiston Mayele, Kennedy Musonda, Jesus Moloko, Stephane Aziz Ki, Mudathir Yahya, Bakari Mwamnyeto, Yannick Bangala, Dickson Job and many others. For his part, Geita Gold FC coach Fred Felix Minziro said they are taking the encounter seriously with the target of emerging victorious. He said his players are in good shape to face the challenge of the league leaders, expressing that they have trained well ahead of the encounter. “Indeed, it is going to be a tough match for which my players have received intensive training to win. They are able, willing and ready to make us happy,” said Minziro. He said they are aware that Yanga are in top form, but, he added, they will not stop them from winning the game. “It is going to be a tough match, but we have talented and committed players who, we believe, will shine in the encounter,” he said.