History was changed in Tanzania’s entertainment industry when President Samia Suluhu appointed Hamisi Mwinjuma aka Mwana FA Deputy Minister for Culture, Arts and Sports in a reshuffle that took place on February 26. He was appointed to the role succeeding Pauline Gekul, who has been appointed Deputy Minister for Constitutional and Legal Affairs. It was an appointment that reverberated across the entertainment industry with the social media quite abuzz. And with this appointment , he became the first ever entertainer to hold a ministerial post despite several artistes having become Members of Parliament. The list which is increasingly growing includes Joseph Mbilinyi aka Sugu, Joseph Haule aka Prof Jay and Vicky Kamata among others. Some of the industry's stalwarts say his appointment will see him become one of the key stakeholders whose work has been influential in the entertainment industry over the years. Seven Mosha, Head of Marketing at Sony Africa Music, says Mwana FA’s appointment promises a better future for the music industry because his vision as a musician aligns with his current position. “I know his vision and seeing his journey from the time he became a Hip Hop artiste to the icon he is now, Mwana FA will take Tanzania music industry to the level it deserves,” she says. Mwana FA developed an interest in music at a tender age of 12 but became a household name within the East African region in the early 2000s with hits such as “Bado Nipo” and “Habari Ndio Hiyo” featuring A.Y. More recently, the rapper has collaborated with Harmonize on the song “Sio Kwa Ubaya.” Throughout his career, Mwana FA has won various awards including Tanzania Music Awards, East African Music Awards, and Channel O Music Video Awards. Hip Hop maestro decided to taste the political waters by vying for the Muheza parliamentary constituency in the 2020 elections. The self-described “Choir Master” is credited with releasing some of the best hip hop songs in Tanzania, including hits like “Mabinti,” “Yalaiti,” “Dume Suruali,” “We Endelea Tu,” and “Hello.” 'Yalaiti'hitmarker is one of the most educated musicians, started his education at Muheza’s Mdote Primary School and then went to Dar es Salaam Institute of Technology (DIT), where he stayed for four months before dropping out to go to Ununio Islamic High School to study for his A-levels. He majored in chemistry, physics, and math. And enrolled for insurance classes at the same institute after graduating from high school. Mwana FA also holds a Certificate in Information Technology and a master’s degree in finance from Coventry University in the United Kingdom. His political ambitions are similar to those of his fellow hip hop artists Sugu and Professor Jay, both of whom have since withdrawn from the parliament. After being selected by the CCM’s election committee to run for a parliamentary seat, he was heavily involved in the campaign trail. Fellow musicians and celebrities have congratulated FA on his appointment including Kenya’s Nonini who writes, “Congratulations my brother @mwanafa for being appointed by the President of Tanzania as the Deputy Minister of Sports, Arts and Culture. You’re very much capable and have the necessary life experience.” On his part, Simai Said, the chairman for Busara promotions has known Mwana FA since the first time he performed at Sauti za Busara festival in 2014. He says that his performance shed a light on the kind of musician he truly was. “I congratulate him and I am certain he will do great. He needs to learn how to do the job and he needs to learn fast. Mwana FA needs to show up and set an example,” Simai says. He further explains “I am one of the founding members of the festival. Years ago when he was invited to perform on Sauti za Busara, his presence on the stage was immaculate. I did not only love his music style but also his stage ownership and connection with the crowd. In his new role, there is pressure and high expectations that come with it.” Simai hints that through this role, Mwana FA will have a personal challenge because Tanzanians, particularly music stakeholders will perceive him as a voice and hope for the entertainment industry considering his own history, knowledge and experience. On his part, Joseph Kusaga, Clouds Media Group managing director, Mwana FA’s appointment should have been announced earlier because the hip hop artist is smart, educated and very experienced in this sector. “I have known Mwana FA a long while ago. From his early days in Bongo Flava. I then started working with him on a number of his projects whereas I supported him by giving a platform for the projects,” says Mr Kusaga. In his seat, Kusaga advises Mwana FA to get rid of bureaucracy in the industry and work with stakeholders who understand the industry inside and out. “In his place, he should think of establishing an academy that would guide people who are in the industry as well as aspiring musicians and artistes. His work should focus on getting Tanzanian music, art and culture spotlight locally and internationally,” Kusaga advises. Artistes in East Africa have taken political oaths, and some of them have achieved considerable success. Joseph Mbiliny (Sugu) and ‘Ndiyo Mzee’ poet Joseph Haule (Professor Jay) are quick examples in Tanzania. They decided to try their hand at politics after launching successful careers as hip-hop artistes, and their efforts appear to be paying off. In Kenya, Charles Njagua (Jaguar) stands out among artistes who traded their music career for political aspirations.