The City of Joburg has confirmed that four of the five reported cholera cases in South Africa are in Johannesburg. The cases are of sisters who had recently travelled to Malawi for a funeral and developed symptoms on their return to Johannesburg, according to MMC for health and social development Ennie Makhafola.  The third case is a contact of the sisters, and the fourth case is a man from Alexandra township. The department of health has recorded its first death related to cholera as laboratory-confirmed cases continue to rise.  Minister of Health Joe Phaahla said the 24-year-old man lived in Wattville, Benoni in Ekurhuleni, and had no prior local or international travel history. He was admitted to Tambo Memorial Hospital with profuse watery diarrhoea and died a few days later.  ALSO SEE: Golden Showers: Goggles to protect eyes from infection, and other handy tips from expert Cholera can be endemic or epidemic. A cholera-endemic area is an area where confirmed cholera cases were detected during the past three years with evidence of local transmission (meaning the cases are not imported from elsewhere).  A cholera outbreak/epidemic can occur in both endemic countries and in countries where cholera does not regularly occur.  Cholera transmission is closely linked to areas where there is poor access to clean water and sanitation facilities. That is why it will be commonly seen in rural areas, townships, informal settlements and camps where minimum requirements of clean water and sanitation are not met.  Cholera is an acute diarrhoeal infection caused by eating and drinking of food or water contaminated with the bacterium Vibrio cholerae. Most people infected may not develop any symptoms, although the bacteria can be found in their faeces for 1-10 days after infection and are shed back into the environment, potentially infecting other people.  Symptoms start appearing between 12 hours and five days after eating contaminated food or water and can affect both children and adults and can kill within hours if untreated.  The commonest symptom is severe acute watery diarrhoea. Among people who develop symptoms, the majority have mild or moderate symptoms, while a minority develop acute watery diarrhoea with severe dehydration. This can lead to death if left untreated.  ALSO SEE: World Obesity Day: How younger women can trim down to live longer than their moms A multifaceted approach is key to control cholera, and to reduce deaths. A combination of surveillance, water, sanitation and hygiene, social mobilisation, treatment, and oral cholera vaccines are used. Medical practitioners need to be extra vigilant so we do not miss any cases of cholera. Cholera surveillance should be part of an integrated disease surveillance system that includes feedback at the local level and information-sharing at the global level.  Cholera cases are detected based on clinical suspicion in patients who present with severe acute watery diarrhoea. The suspicion is then confirmed by identifying V. cholerae in stool samples from affected patients. The samples are sent to a laboratory for confirmation by culture or PCR.  Countries affected by cholera are encouraged to strengthen disease surveillance and national preparedness to rapidly detect and respond to outbreaks. Under the International Health Regulations, notification of all cases of cholera is no longer mandatory. However, public health events involving cholera must always be assessed against the criteria provided in the regulations to determine whether there is a need for official notification.  As a country we need to ensure that all our people have access to safe drinking water and adequate sanitation. Interventions include actions to ensure use of safe water, basic sanitation and good hygiene practices in cholera hotspots.  In addition to cholera, such interventions prevent a wide range of other waterborne illnesses, as well as contributing to achieving goals related to poverty, malnutrition, and education.  Cholera is an easily treatable disease. The majority of people can be treated successfully through prompt administration of oral rehydration solution (ORS) dissolved in one litre of clean water. Adult patients may require up to six litres of ORS to treat moderate dehydration on the first day.  Severely dehydrated patients are at risk of shock and require the rapid administration of intravenous fluids (drip). These patients are also given appropriate antibiotics to diminish the duration of diarrhoea, reduce the volume of rehydration fluids needed, and shorten the amount and duration of bacteria excretion in their stool.  People must have fast access to treatment. With early and proper treatment, the case fatality rate should remain below 1%.  Zinc is an important addition to treatment for children under five, which also reduces the duration of diarrhoea and may prevent future episodes of other causes of acute watery diarrhoea. Breastfeeding should also be promoted. Communities need to be educated on safe water and food practices. This can be done in schools and churches where many people congregate.  Basic hygiene practices like handwashing with soap, safe preparation and storage of food and safe disposal of the faeces of children, funeral practices for individuals who die from cholera to prevent infection among attendees must be emphasised. There are oral vaccines available and these should be provided to everyone who has not received a dose. NOW READ: Mark Pilgrim dies at 53: ‘He fought valiantly to the very end’