Dar es Salaam. Chadema national chairman Freeman Mbowe yesterday outlined achievements of reconciliation reached with the ruling CCM about a years ago. The leader of the main opposition party said during a recent meeting with his CCM counterpart, President Samia Suluhu Hassan, at the Arusha State Lodge that he had resolved to speed up execution of issues that would make reconciliation practical and alive. Addressing a press conference that was televised live from Arusha, Mr Mbowe said 12 months after his release from prison, trust had increased between CCM and Chadema. “That is why we have invited Her Excellency the President to grace this year’s commemoration of International Women Day organised by Chadema’s women’s arm in Moshi, Kilimanjaro Region,” he said. “I will be there to welcome her (President Hassan). That will be a great opportunity for her to hear from the party’s women and the Opposition in general. This is after getting used to listening to women from the ruling CCM,” he added. He commended President Hassan for accepting the invitation, noting that it will provide her with an avenue to know activities and challenges women in opposition were facing. “She is obliged to serve citizens from all political parties and I believe she will not come to do politics there, rather she will execute her duties as the Commander in Chief of Armed Forces and the Head of State,” Mr Mbowe said. He added that during the evaluation meeting they agreed to speed up execution of issues related to reconciliation, especially those that would bring changes of the constitution and laws particularly those related to elections. “We agreed that we have made a good stride in the last 12 months, but the job remains incomplete. Still, we have a huge job to do in order to return the country to its independence, dispense justice to our people and restore true democracy in pushing for the people’s development,” he said. Detailing benefits of reconciliation, Mr Mbowe said political rallies have been lifted after seven years of banning and that the people’s freedom of speech has been restored. “I held public rallies in Sumbawanga, Rahela, Tunduma, Mbozi, Kyela, Mbeya Urban, Tukuyu, Kiwira, Njombe and Makambako where citizens received the decision with celebrations,” he said. Furthermore, he said unlike in the past Mr Godbless Lema’s return was smooth and peaceful that was characterised with road closure for three hours with the police providing security without colliding with citizens. He said hundreds of cases facing party members, cadres and supporters have been dropped countrywide with the remaining one being worked on. “We are now talking on issues of the new constitution. This is a process which is subject to time. Those who don’t understand now will do so over time,” he said. He said President Hassan has shown bravery because reconciliation which simply means removing CCM from dominance could hardly be accepted by the ruling party’s stewards because of putting the fate of their benefits in limbo. “Efforts that we leaders have started should be well replicated and well received by members and the general public at the grassroots level,” he said, emphasizing that all the doubts will be completed over time.  A special programme During the event, Mr Mbowe said Chadema would launch a nationwide special programme at the end of this month in Kigoma Region. The programme will then be continued in Katavi, Tabora, Kagera, Geita, Mwanza, Shinyanga, Simiyu, Mara, according to him. “A new schedule will be released after completing the first phase in the Lakes and Western Zones, The programme not only aims at taking the people to political rallies, but also taking the party to every region, constituency, ward, village and hamlet,” he said.  Willibrod Slaa Regarding the recent involvement of the party’s former secretary general, Dr Willibrod Slaa in the party’s activities including rallies, Mr Mbowe said in modern politics there is no permanent friend and enemy. “We register our members digitally, therefore people are free to join and quit without notifying leaders. But, considering the position he held in the party, it would be wiser for the former Tanzania Ambassador to consult party leaders upon considering re-joining the party,” he opined.  Tundu Lissu Regarding Mr Lissu’s whereabouts, Mr Mbowe said he has travelled abroad for other duties, something which is normal. “I will also travel to Johannesburg and later to the US for political activities later in the year, therefore nothing is strange for Mr Lissu too,” he said.