Moshi. Beneficiaries of subsidised fertilizers have pleaded with the government to sustain the programme in the best interest of the country’s agriculture sector. They made the plea after seeing signs of positive results (increase in crop yields) following the use subsidised fertilisers in the 2022/23 farming season. President Samia Suluhu Hassan’s administration authorised the distribution of subsidised fertilisers to Tanzanian farmers in an effort to boost output, which had been negatively impacted by a rise in fertiliser prices. Initially, fertiliser prices skyrocketed, and the spike was attributed to the impact of Covid-19, but the situation worsened following the Russia-Ukraine war outbreak. Farmers separately expressed their concerns to journalists who toured the northern zone to assess the impact brought by subsidised fertiliser on the country’s farming. They said the government should sustainably provide subsidised fertilisers in order to maintain realised production achievements. Additionally, they claimed that higher crop yields ensure the availability of raw materials for industrial production, increase exports, and provide food security. The Kaloleni irrigation scheme chairman, Mr Mohamed Nditi, said the government, through the ministry of agriculture and the Tanzania Fertiliser Regulatory Authority (TFRA), should sustain the programme for the interest of the sector and the majority of Tanzanians. “The decision will support farmers’ struggles in increasing efficiency for their own benefit and that of the country in general,” he said. Mr Nditi leads over 300 farmers at the Kaloleni Irrigation Scheme, which comprises 250 hectares and is located in Moshi Municipal Council, in Kilimanjaro Region. A scheme member, Ms Candida Urio, seconded Mr Nditi, saying the programme’s sustainability will benefit over 60 percent of Tanzanians who engage in agriculture. She said farmers working in the scheme used to get 10 to 15 bags of rice per acre, but added that subsidised fertilisers have enabled them to increase harvests to an average of 20 to 30 bags per acre. “The programme has increased farmers’ understanding of the proper use of fertilisers at different farming levels,” she said. “We are thankful to President Samia Suluhu Hassan for the decision by her administration to provide subsidised fertilisers to farmers, something that will significantly boost crop productivity,” added Ms Urio. Another farmer, Ms Rhoda Miria, said apart from making subsidised fertilisers sustainable, irrigation infrastructures have to be improved. “This will improve efficiency and provide economic benefits to farmers. Before the programme, through rice harvests from the scheme, I could meet the costs of living and cover the education costs for my children,” she said. “The availability of subsidised fertilisers has enabled me to implement some development projects like constructing a modern house.” Mr Seleman Kushuma, another farmer at the scheme, said the programme has made the sector more promising now, attracting more players to engage in agriculture, especially the youth. A retired teacher, Mr Abdallah Shayo, said subsidised fertilisers should reach farmers early, before commencement of the season. “The irrigation scheme should also be modernised in order to increase production efficiency for the benefit of farmers and the general public,” he said. An Irish potato farmer, Mr Hermengildi Temu, said the fertiliser has enabled him to expand the size of his farm from the previous 150 acres to the present 400 acres. According to him, the expansion has made it possible for him to invest half of the money that was previously used for fertilisers and the other half for expansion. He told reporters who visited his farm in Siha District, Kilimanjaro Region that the government should consider expanding the benefits by including other inputs in the programme, such as pesticides. “Agriculture extension officers should reach farmers in different parts of the country to help them modernise their farming, instead of operating in a business-as-usual style,” he added. Ladislaus Kauku, the farm manager for Karatu Coffee Estate Limited, pleaded with President Samia Suluhu Hassan to maintain the programme’s support of the nation’s agriculture. “Honourable President, please don’t end the service as it is helping farmers improve crop yields, which will ultimately reduce the skyrocketing price of food,” he said. “Farmers should abide by government procedures in order to get subsidised fertiliser and make accurate use of it on their farms,” he added. Mr Kauku said the programme is helpful in coffee farming but requires the government’s hand to rescue it from the possibility of collapse. Furthermore, he said the crop was facing strong competition from producers in Kenya and Uganda. Producers in these countries receive significant support from their governments. Government intervention “The government ought to take into account incorporating some fertilisers into the plan, such as Calcibor, which is distributed by Export Trading Global (ETG). Calcium and boron, two nutrients that plants require a lot of, are present in acceptable amounts in Calcibor,” he said. A maize farmer in Qang’denti village in Baray Ward, Karatu District, Manyara Region, Mr Moses Slaa, commended President Hassan and Agriculture Minister Hussein Bashe for making subsidised fertilisers available to farmers. He claimed that the government’s choice has encouraged young people to become involved in crop farming, therefore boosting their economies as well. “The Tanzania Fertiliser Regulatory Authority (TFRA) is also highly appreciated for its regulatory role. They should continue providing us with quality fertilisers on time,” he said. For his part, a horticulture farmer in Morogoro Urban, Mr Daud Jileka said crops like onions and vegetables require a high amount of fertiliser. He called upon the government to put a funding programme in place so that farmers could purchase the fertilisers that their crops need. “I went through a tough moment last year because high fertiliser prices restricted me from providing my onion farm with enough fertilisers. The government’s decision came at the right time to rescue the crisis I was going through,” he said. The Kaloleni Irrigation Scheme Speaking about the scheme, Mr Nditi said it was registered in 2022 and comprised 230 members: 180 men and 50 women. Furthermore, he said members have inherited farms that were traditionally owned and maintained by their ancestors, noting that the place was later developed. “We are closely cooperating with the National Irrigation Commission (NIRC) in the provision of appropriate irrigation expertise,” he said. He claimed that the rise in fertiliser prices caused farmers to apply less fertiliser, which had a negative impact on crop yields. “Subsidised fertiliser has enabled farmers to apply the required amount of fertiliser in all phases. The ongoing government empowerment process has also attracted more youth and women to engage in farming,” he said. Regarding future plans, he stated that the scheme intends to buy and own various farm machinery, such as planters and combine harvesters, as well as build road infrastructure to permit tractors and vehicles to pass through during field operations. The head of the Agriculture, Livestock, and Fisheries Division in the Moshi Municipality, Ms Martha Kimambo, said farmers carrying out farming activities at the Kaloleni Irrigation Scheme have been given the highest priority in the provision of subsidised fertilisers. “This is because, apart from being qualified, they don’t rely on rain-fed agriculture; therefore, they operate throughout the year,” she said. She noted that 315 of the 2,525 farmers who had been enrolled by the municipality had benefited from the subsidised fertilisers. According to Ms Kimambo, the municipality has been sending some of the available professionals to help the Kaloleni rice farmers even though there aren’t many agriculture specialists. She said a total of 179.9 tonnes of different fertilisers were required in the 2022/23 farming season, noting however that 79.9 tonnes have been issued, distributed, and utilised by farmers on the scheme. “The amount of fertiliser utilised in the municipality will significantly increase upon the commencement of the farming season. The season depends on the rains that will take farmers back to business,” she said.