With an all-electric future and replacement only due in four years’ time, based on reports from 2020, Nissan has given its iconic GT-R another round of updates ahead of the commencing of sales later this year. Adaptions this time focusing more on aesthetics, the seventh reworking of the GT-R since its world unveiling at the Tokyo Motor Show in 2007 consists of a new mesh pattern grille, rounded front and rear fascias, a new rear wing and restyled side vents all as a means of improving aerodynamics. As part of yet another range slim-lining, Nissan has reduced the GT-R line-up to three distinct models; the standard Premium, special edition T-Spec unveiled in 2021 and the flagship GT-R Nismo that returns for the first time since 2019. ALSO READ: Next Nissan GT-R earmarked 2023 with electrical assistance Building on the updates applied to the Premium, the T-Spec hasn’t received any additional tweaks, meaning it retains the Ray’s Engineering 20-inch forged alloy wheels, carbon ceramic brakes from the Nismo, T-Spec badging, a carbon fibre rear wing and two colours that pays homage to the Skyline GT-R34; Millennium Jade and Midnight Purple. The opposite is true of the Nismo though which additionally receives a new rear wing with a larger surface area, again as a means of aiding aerodynamics, revised diffuser and front lip spoiler, and, as part of the new Nismo Appearance Package, a carbon fibre engine cover and bonnet, red accents, black Ray’s Engineering 20-inch forged alloys and a new unique colour called Stealth Grey. Inside, the main overhaul centres around a change in materials and more specification items rather than a complete redesign. In the case of the Premium, Nappa leather now adorns the dashboard with the T-Spec sporting a combination of semi-aniline suede and Mori Green upholstery for the seats. Standard fare on all three models though is an uprated eleven-speaker Bose sound system, heated front seats, dual-zone climate control, front and rear parking sensors and a reworked eight-inch touchscreen infotainment system that still displays lap times, engine readouts and specific power delivery graphs to name but a few. Besides the inclusion of Recaro seats with synthetic suede inserts and red stitching and an Alcantara wrapped steering wheel, the Nismo also receives larger rotors for the Brembo carbon ceramic brakes, a first time limited slip front differential and carbon fibre on the roof, bootlid, mirror caps and door sills cover in order to keep weight down. Underneath the bonnet, the stalwart VR38DETT 3.8-litre twin-turbocharged V6 engine that has powered the GT-R ever since its debut 16-years ago has not benefitted from any further changes. Last recalibrated with more power and torque in 2020, the unit delivers 421kW/632Nm in the Premium and T-Spec and 441kW/632Nm in the Nismo. As ever, the amount of twist is delivered to Nissan’s ATTESA ET-S all-wheel-drive through a six-speed dual-clutch transmission, with all three models getting unique tyres from Dunlop as standard. Going on-sale in Japan later this year with the United States following soon, Nissan South Africa is still to confirm whether the updated GT-R will be made available, but should approval be given, expect an estimated arrival around the second quarter of the year albeit without the inclusion of the T-Spec.