The wife of the Mozambican arrested on Saturday by the Saps Special Task Force and other units has denied all the charges against her husband. “My husband is innocent and it’s unfair they call him a kidnapping kingpin. It is maybe that people are jealous of his low-profile life,” said the wife of suspect Esmael Malude Ramos Nangy. She did not want her name published. Nangy made his first court appearance in Tembisa Magistrate’s Court yesterday as extradition proceedings began. Nangy was arrested by teams led by members of the Trilateral Planning Cell (TPC) and the International Criminal Police Organisation (Interpol) in an upmarket estate in Centurion on Saturday. The team was acting on a warrant of arrest and an extradition request by the government of Mozambique, Saps spokesperson Brigadier Athlenda Mathe said. “On Saturday evening, the team consisting of the Special Task Force (STF), Crime Intelligence and Organised Crime arrested Nangy in Centurion,” said Mathe. “The team seized a 9mm licensed firearm, 14 9mm cartridges, five cellphones, bank cards for South African banks and SA and Mozambican SIM cards.” NOW READ: Alleged Mozambican kidnapping kingpin remanded in custody Nangy was handcuffed and he was wearing ankle chains as he entered the court. He nodded at his wife in greeting. Heavily armed police members stood guard inside the court. Nangy was wearing a black hoodie and blue trousers and his hair was tied in a ponytail. The media was barred from taking his picture and videos. The wife she does not understand why her husband was dubbed a kidnapper. “He is good to everyone and you’d never hear someone say anything bad about him,” she said. “We are scared he might be extradited to Mozambique. I will not accept for my husband to go to Mozambique until they show us what he did.” Her husband’s sudden arrest does not make sense to her as they have been living in South Africa for many years, she said. “I have been trying to speak to Interpol and the Hawks and they just say they suspect my husband.” Nangy’s lawyer Calvin Maile said his client had no idea where these allegations came from as he was a well-respected businessman both in Mozambique and in South Africa. Magistrate Karien Brits said there were still documents which were needed from Mozambique before extradition procedures could start. “Therefore, a postponement for the state to get the necessary documents will be reasonable.” The case was postponed to 16 January.  ALSO READ: Saps, Interpol arrest wanted Mozambican kidnapping kingpin – lungam@citizen.co.za