Dar es Salaam. Politicians and political analysts yesterday welcomed President Samia Suluhu Hassan’s decision to lift the ban on opposition rallies, but called for sincerity in its implementation. The late President John Magufuli banned opposition parties from holding rallies in 2016, saying electioneering was over, and it was time to build the nation. However, the move was deemed unconstitutional, and part of a wider plan by the government to silence and emasculate the opposition Those who spoke to The Citizen also praised President Hassan’s promise to appoint a special committee comprising members drawn from various groups to advise on the best way of getting a new and better constitution. President Hassan lifted the ban on political rallies almost seven years after it was imposed following the 2015 General Election. She made the announcement during her meeting with representatives 19 parties with permanent registration at State House in Dar es Salaam. After coming into office on March 19, 2021, President Hassan promised to bring about national reconciliation, and appointed a task force to coordinate Tanzanians’ opinions on multiparty democracy. The team submitted its report on October 21, 2022. The task force, among other things, proposed that public rallies should be allowed along with the creation of a special committee to analyse the opinions of stakeholders on the constitution review process, both of which President Hassan addressed yesterday. Constitutional and Legal Affairs minister Damas Ndumbaro said the President had directed that various laws related to political issues be amended. “Fortunately, we have the Law Reforms Commission, and tomorrow (today) I will meet with them on this. All the relevant laws will be worked upon. We have already started with the Political Parties Act,” he said. Commenting on President Hassan’s remarks on public meetings and the constitution review process, political party leaders commended the Head of State, saying the two developments were something they had sought for a long time. Chadema national chairman Freeman Mbowe said, however, that they had received the President’s decision with “great caution” because the right to hold political rallies was guaranteed by the Constitution, and its restoration had been delayed unnecessarily. “We want to see the implementation of this from the ward to the national level. Democracy should be afforded to the people at all levels. This matter involves many people, including the Police Force,” he said. Regarding the review of the Constitution, which Chadema has been advocating for several years, Mr Mbowe said they had received President Hassan’s promise “positively” because Chadema had in the past called for the formation of a body that would not be dominated by a single group. “We have made it clear that the constitution review process must be restarted now. Our position is that we should have an organ that will not be dominated by one party, or a group of people. We have made this suggestion in various dialogues with our counterparts” he noted. For his part, ACT-Wazalendo Zitto Kabwe said President Hassan’s decision would open a new page for democracy, and commended her for “a decision which was not easy to make”. He said President Hassan had walked the talk, and was making good on promises she made when she came into office in March 2021. Mr Kabwe added that he was encouraged by three issues the President addressed yesterday – public rallies, law review and the constitution review process. “This is the year of political reform...it is the year of democracy. Only through rallies can the people get to hear what political party leaders have to say,” said Mr Kabwe, who was a member of the presidential task force. Council of Political Parties chairperson Juma Ali Khatibu commended President Hassan for working on the opinions which stakeholders aired before the task force, and which were later presented to her. “Many of us wished to see political rallies continue, but they were banned. The President has listened to the pleas of stakeholders, and decided to resolve the matter,” he said. Chaumma chairperson Hashim Rungwe said the decision came as a relief for opposition parties, which had not held public rallies for “a very long time”. “We will hold public meetings to see whether the government is sincere. Have the police understood the President as we have understood her, or have we understood he differently?” he wondered. NCCR-Mageuzi vice-chairperson Joseph Selasini said a wise leader does not rush to deal with a matter, so he congratulated President Hassan for showing excellent leadership in dealing with the matter. “I’m asking my colleagues from political parties, let’s go and do civilized politics as the President asked, based on the constitution, laws and our culture,” said Mr Selasini. A political scientist and lecturer at the University of Dar es Salaam, Dr Neema Bahati, told The Citizen in an interview that President Hassan has made some “bold decision”, and was leading by example. “During the late Magufuli’s era, we could not even hear about meetings with political parties. He never believed in reconciliation as a pillar of democracy. We are grateful for President Samia Suluhu Hassan’s courage,” she noted. In her speech yesterday, the President said, “Conducting political rallies is the right of political parties. During the ongoing reconciliation talks, this issue emerged as the most important issue to political parties. Therefore, I’m here before you today, to lift the ban that was previously imposed on political rallies,” she announced. In order for the permission to materialise, the President said the responsibility now remained for the political parties to provide information to the state agencies as the laws and regulations direct so that they can get security during their gatherings. “Our duty as the government is to protect your meetings, hold them safely and finish them well, but you have to adhere to the rules and regulations as a responsibility,” she said. Regarding a new constitution, the President noted that she would soon revive the stalled process in order to come up with a constitution that would be in line with current needs. “We will soon we form a committee that will include all groups in society. The committee will advise us on what we need to do and how to get a progressive constitution for our country,” she said.