After shaking things up by announcing some new additions to The Real Housewives of Durban cast ahead of Season three, Showmax and the show’s producers welcomed the show’s new faces in true Real Housewives style in an exclusive screening event held in Durban last week.  Earlier this year, it was announced that Mbali Ngiba, Maria Valaskatzis and Slindile Wendy Ndlovu would join the cast, thus replacing Londie London, Thobile Mseleku and Nonkanyiso Conco.  The three new faces will star alongside returning cast members Annie Mthembu, Jojo Robinson, Nonku Williams and Sorisha Naidoo who were all present at the screening event.  Judging by the pictures Thobile Mseleku, popularly known as MaKhumalo, was the only one of last season’s cast members present at the screening.  After being cut from The Real Housewives of Durban this season, friend to the show Mabusi Seeme also seemed to have skipped the season three premiere screening. READ: Londie London denies driving a Toyota Tazz After welcoming the Lagos housewives cast in true style at their Joburg screening last year, Durban’s own DBN Gogo provided the sounds towards the end of the evening as guests at the #RHODurban screening danced the night away.  The cast of The Real Housewives of Durban has gone international after a deal was struck to allow the franchise to air on Bravo TV, the American home of all things Real Housewives. This comes in the wake of rumours that The Real Housewives of Joburg franchise is set to introduce an all-new cast.  Bravo TV is an American basic cable television network owned by NBCUniversal and it remains the home of the Real Housewives franchise. After airing on television, episodes of the show are later be made available on the Peacock streaming app.  The Real Housewives is an international reality television franchise that consists of 56 shows, 11 of which are based in America, 19 international instalments and 26 spin-offs. Four of those international instalments followed the lives of South African women in Durban, Johannesburg, Cape Town and Pretoria. Since then, Real Housewives has announced that Abuja in Nigeria and Gqeberha in South Africa were added to the stable.  This is despite the South African audience anxiously awaiting the return of the Johannesburg version of the franchise.  The Real Housewives of Durban will be launching on Showmax from 1 February 2023 with new episodes dropping every Wednesday. READ NEXT: Everything you need to know about The Real Housewives of Durban