A joint intelligence-driven operation has led to police tracking down and arresting three suspects in the murder of Johannesburg police officer Sergeant Phillip Mathlaela on Christmas day. Mathlaela – a 41-year-old police officer – was brutally shot and killed while he was parked on a bridge in Kliptown. The killers then removed his body of a from his vehicle and dumped it into a river.  The motive for the murder is still unknown. Police have, however, ruled out robbery, as the deceased’s cellphones, vehicle, and house keys were found at the scene of the crime. He had been off-duty at the time. The suspects – aged 30, 25 and 22 – were taken into police custody on 30 December 2022. The three men will be charged with murder and for being in possession of an unlicensed firearm and ammunition. The trio will appear before the Kliptown Magistrates’ court on Tuesday, 02 January 2022. The National Commissioner of the SAPS, General Fannie Masemola has condemned the attack and killing of members, both on and off duty, and says police will continue to bring to book those behind the heinous attacks and killing of police officers.  ALSO READ: 7 gruesome murders that shocked South Africans in 2022 Three more suspects arrested for murder, kidnapping and extortion Meanwhile, in a separate incident, three other murder suspects were arrested in Khayelitsha just three days after they were believed to have killed a man on Boxing Day (26 December 2022). According to police reports, another joint intelligence-driven takedown operation – this time by members attached to the Provincial Kidnapping Task Team, the Directorate for Priority Crime Investigation, the Provincial Organised Crime Investigation, Crime Intelligence and the Hostage Negotiation Team – resulted in the arrests of three men who were believed to have been involved in the killing of a 48-year-old Chinese national. The suspects, aged 30, 32 and 37 were believed to have been involved with the kidnapping and extortion of the deceased. The deceased’s 52-year-old brother was also found in a serious condition on 28 December 2022 on the Swartklip Road in Khayelitsha. The victim was transported to the Khayelitsha District Hospital for medical examination at the Thuthuzela Care Centre. Preliminary investigation suggest that the brothers were abducted in the Mowbray area on Thursday, 22 December 2022. These suspects later contacted relatives and demanded cash in return for their safe return and unification with their families.  NOW READ: Lead investigator in the murder case of Namhla Mtwa removed after receiving death threats They were instructed not to talk to authorities as that would have put their loved ones directly in harm’s way. However, police immediately activated a multi-disciplinary team to probe the disappearance of the brothers. The suspects are scheduled to appear in the Khayelitsha Magistrates’ court, facing charges relating to murder, attempted murder as well as kidnapping and extortion.