The Stormers will be without 14 key players in the next two weeks when they take on Glasgow Warriors and London Irish away from home in the United Rugby Championship and Heineken Champions Cup respectively. Among the unavailable are Springbok players Herschel Jantjies, Salmaan Moerat, Frans Malherbe and Evan Roos. The good news though for the Stormers is that SA ‘A’ tourist last November, Sacha Feinberg-Mngomezulu, and Stefan Ungerer will both be part of the group having recovered from injury, while Imad Khan and Simon Miller are on their first tour and in line to make their Stormers debut. ALSO READ: Stormers ring in the new year in style, while Lions pick up the pieces The 28-man Stormers squad will leave for Europe later Monday ahead of Sunday’s clash with the Warriors. The following Sunday they will take on London Irish in a return Champions Cup clash, before returning to Cape Town to prepare to face ASM Clermont Auvergne at Cape Town Stadium in the same competition on Saturday, January 21. ALSO READ: Consistency is now key for Sharks, says boss Neil Powell Coach John Dobson said that this two-week tour will be a real test for the depth of the squad. “We have two tough games in conditions vastly different to what we have experienced at home in the last month, so this will be a real test for us,” said Dobson. “There are some experienced players missing through injury, but we are excited to see what the players coming in can offer and look forward to the chance for the squad as a whole to grow and learn on tour together.”  Forwards: Hacjivah Dayimani, Ben-Jason Dixon, Joseph Dweba, Willie Engelbrecht, Connor Evans, Neethling Fouche, Deon Fourie, Brok Harris, Steven Kitshoff, JJ Kotze, Simon Miller, Marvin Orie, Junior Pokomela, Sazi Sandi, Marcel Theunissen, Andre-Hugo Venter, Ali Vermaak. Backs: Clayton Blommetjies, Angelo Davids, Paul de Wet, Dan du Plessis, Sacha Feinberg-Mngomezulu, Suleiman Hartzenberg, Imad Khan, Manie Libbok, Stefan Ungerer, Damian Willemse, Leolin Zas. Unavailable: Jean Luc du Plessis, Herschel Jantjies, Alapati Leuia, Frans Malherbe, Godlen Masimla, Salmaan Moerat, Ruhan Nel, Scarra Ntubeni, Gary Porter, Evan Roos, Seabelo Senatla, Adre Smith, Ernst van Rhyn, Nama Xaba.