Artist Master KG confirmed over the weekend that he and fellow Limpopo artist Makhadzi have split.  The star couple has had an on-and-off relationship for the last three years.  Posting on Facebook in a now-deleted status, Master KG wrote: “It is sad to say this but me and my queen Makhadzi [are] no longer in a relationship but we continue working together to entertain our lovely fans going forward. Thank you”. Makhadzi commented on the spilt in response to Master KG’s post. And it has people wondering if this is a publicity stunt.  Makhadzi and  Master KG that of facebook ???????? pic.twitter.com/0rTAATWrnR— Dr MuVenda (@Ndi_Muvenda_) January 8, 2023 Master KG and Makhadzi were together before their big breaks over three years ago. At that time, their break up was attributed to them focusing on their careers.  Reports of the rekindling of their relationship were first reported in November 2021.  The pair went on Instagram Live from their studio session and fans were happy to see them working together, but more were excited to see the chemistry the two shared while singing and dancing. Snippets from Instagram Live showed Makhadzi dancing intimately on the producer, while he caressed her body and gave a big smile as she sang the lyrics of their unreleased love song to him.   RELATED: Are Makhadzi and Master KG back together? Their relationship would continue to be public when Master KG went all out for Valentine’s Day last year.  Taking to social media, the Ghanama singer posted a series of videos on her Instagram story of the romantic dinner surprise which saw a huge bouquet of fresh white roses which Master KG gave to her. The dinner date took place in an empty restaurant that theJerusalema hitmaker booked out just for the two of them, and the couple shared kisses and a three-course meal. Setting the romantic tone, was a special performance by a saxophone artist. The two musicians travelled across the world in 2022, with their stardom continuing to grow and Master KG hopes that their working relationship continues and aids their success.  YOU MAY ALSO LIKE: Enhle Mbali facing ‘frivolous’ R143 million lawsuit