Dar es Salaam. Commuters in Dar es Salaam City relying on the Rapid Bus Transit (BRT) services will from today January 16, start bearing with increased fares as announced by the Dar es Salaam Rapid Transit Agency (DART). In a statement issued by DART over the weekend, the new fares have been endorsed by the Land Transport Regulatory Authority (LATRA). According to the statement, travellers from Kimara and Ubungo terminals to Gerezani, Morocco and Kivukoni will now pay Sh750 up from the previous Sh650. Which means there is an increase of Sh100. The new fare for adult city commuters has increased between Sh100 for the main trunk and feeder routes have gone up by Sh50 respectively. Secondary and Primary School students in uniforms or displaying Identity Cards will not be affected by the fare increase and therefore continue paying Sh200. This is the first time for the fare to rise since 2016, when the BRT started operations. Ever since it was introduced, the project has significantly helped to reduce transportation time from an average of two or more hours to just thirty minutes for 20.6-kilometre long distance from the city centre to Kimara terminal. Travellets starting their journeys from Morocco terminal to different destinations like Kimara or the city centre will also pay the same amount as is the case for Muhimbili to Gerezani terminal. A feeder route from Kimara terminal to Mbezi Mwisho bus stop will pay Sh500 from the previous Sh400 and this makes it the cheapest route. From Kimara terminal to Mloganzila Hospital commuters will pay Sh700 and not Sh650 as it used to be. “Only Sh50 will have to be borne by those using this public means to reach the national referral hospital,” reads part of the statement. The only route outside Dar es Salaam by BRT which is to Kibaha town in the Coast Region starting at Kimara terminal will see a passenger paying Sh700 not Sh650/ as it used to be. Statement further noted that DART tickets can now be purchased using both E-payment methods or physically.          