In the face of the climate emergency and rising energy costs, the use of water — and especially hot water — is increasingly weighing on consumers’ minds. This has revived the long-standing debate on the frequency and duration of showers.  These should last no more than five minutes, say the experts, who encourage people to stick to this limit to keep costs down and preserve the planet without affecting their personal hygiene. Less than a year ago, people were debating the best time of day to shower: in the morning to boost your creativity, or in the evening to get rid of the tensions accumulated throughout the day.  A few months later, the constant rise in energy costs, combined with environmental issues, seems to have reframed the debate with a new question: how long should a shower last to save money — or at least to avoid spending too much — and to be more environmentally friendly?  The debate was notably re-launched by The Guardian, which looked at the pros and cons of the ‘four-minute shower.’ This record time leaves little room for relaxation or extensive personal care, say the experts, who in reality allow an additional minute for performing this daily act. A shower is better than a bath. This is a concept that most of us understand, but it only makes sense if you don’t exceed the required time of five minutes. Taking a long shower can mean using as much water as a bath, which is not especially cost-effective or eco-friendly. And yet, the majority of people seem to spend more than this optimal amount of time in the shower.  The US Environmental Protection Agency estimates the average shower to last eight minutes, while a survey carried out by BVA-Doméo in 2015 reported an average shower time of nine minutes for French people. And this is too long, according to several experts, including France’s, Agency for Ecological Transition (Ademe), which recommends taking showers that last less than five minutes to reduce water and energy bills, or at least to prevent them from soaring. A simple calculation confirms the logic behind this recommendation. If we consider that a classic shower head consumes about 15 liters of water per minute, a shower lasting eight or nine minutes will use about 120 liters or 135 liters of water respectively, which is almost as much as some bathtubs hold.  A five-minute shower, without turning off the water — more on that in a moment — will use only 75 liters of water. This is a significant difference which, when considered on a weekly basis, should be enough to convince you to reduce the duration of what is considered by many to be a moment of relaxation.  And that’s just the water consumption… Unless you only take cold showers, you have to add to that the costs involved in using hot water, which are expected to continue rising in the coming months. Cutting the cost as much as possible Faced with soaring energy costs, advice and recommendations are springing up about how to reduce costs in an optimal way, while also adopting more environmentally responsible behavior. Beyond the duration of the shower, fixed as we have seen at a maximum of five minutes, the Ademe recommends turning off the water when soaping — a trick that could considerably reduce costs, considering that about 30 liters of water can be lost unnecessarily.  But the Agency for Ecological Transition also advises investing in a water-saving shower head and an aerator. The first could reduce consumption to six liters per minute, a shower of five minutes using just 30 liters, while the second could reduce the flow by up to 50%, all with no loss in comfort, the agency says. This could significantly reduce water and energy bills. Last but not least, France’s Ademe recommends not neglecting possible water leaks. It seems obvious, but an undetected and unrepaired leak can cause you to lose up to 600 liters of water per day, depending on its origin.  “Read the numbers on your water meter just before you go to bed. When you wake up, if these figures are not identical and no one has used water during the night, look for the leak!” advises the environmental agency. Is a shower of less than five minutes sufficient for perfect personal hygiene? Yes, according to a number of health professionals who are regularly asked about the subject. Questioned by the American media Healthline In 2020, dermatologist Edidiong Kaminska estimated that a 5-to-10-minute shower was enough to optimally cleanse and moisturize the skin.  More — or less — could actually make skin more fragile. People with skin problems, such as eczema, are advised to reduce this time, as well as the temperature, to reduce the risk of inflammation. Far from the relaxing moment appreciated by many consumers, the quick shower has the merit of being economical and ecological, all while meeting the needs of the skin. So many reasons to make it part of your daily routine!