The extended African National Congress (ANC) 55th national conference affirmed the comprehensive implementation of its step-aside rule, vowing to never allow the opportunistic application of the contentious resolution. The step-aside policy was adopted at the 54th conference in 2017, but its application has drawn dissatisfaction, deepening divisions among members, with KwaZulu-Natal and the RET faction opposed the policy, calling for it to be scrapped. ANC youth leader and member of the organisational renewal commission rapporteur, Fasiha Hassan said all nine provinces have resolved to reaffirm the rule. “We have re-affirmed the step-aside resolution of the 54th conference. The future of the ANC and the trust of our people depends on its speedy and uniform implementation,” she said.  “We cannot ask for the trust of our people while deploying people charged with serious crimes.” She added that every member affected should have their circumstances reviewed every six months, with the party’s disciplinary committee responsible for sticking to the deadlines so as not to “unduly prejudice affected comrades”. “Ultimately, conference urged the NEC to ensure regulations are implemented uniformly, impartially and consistently, and not be used to fight fact battles,” said Hassan. RELATED: Magashule’s hopes rest on KZN bid to scrap ANC step-aside rule The governing party further committed to publicly dissociating themselves from those that are corrupt, commit serious crimes and abuse women and children. Anyone making false allegations against another member will be sanctioned. “Any instance of abuse of the rule – that is false accusations and malicious accusations – if identified and proven, should be sanctioned to maximum extent of the law and of the ANC code of conduct.” She said the ANC was the only party that is transparent in dealing with fraud and corruption and had been “bold” in taking decisions. Furthermore, said Hassan, the proposed six months review has nothing to do with the work of the National Prosecuting Authority (NPA), which is prosecuting some of the criminal cases, such as that of former secretary-general Ace Magashule. “That shows that we mean business. We are on a renewal path and are an ANC beyond people and personalities. “The reason behind the 6-month review of those on step-aside is to enhance procedural fairness, we are not going to unduly prejudice people. And it has nothing to do with the work of the NPA, which an independent entity, and ANC has no influence or interference as it should be. “The NPA must continue with its work and processes, but we are well within our rights as well to say after six months ‘well there has not been any change’ and perhaps there have been developments such as new evidence. That’s a fair way of dealing with matters so that no one feels prejudiced.” NOW READ: Step-aside rule: ‘Organisation comes first, not individuals,’ – Ramaphosa