For goal-driven Jody Van Zijl from Reddam House in Waterfall, being in matric was her light at the end of the tunnel which was what kept her motivated.  This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. This is a modal window. This modal can be closed by pressing the Escape key or activating the close button. Obtaining seven distinctions and securing an average of 89%, 18-year-old Van Zijl was ecstatic and very proud of herself.  Van Zijl was one of the outstanding top performers at Reddam House.  “I was always academically driven and I have worked really hard,” she said.  Van Zijl said the best way to navigate through matric was to maintain balance. According to Van Zijl, everyone thought top students sit at home all weekend and do not have lives but in order to do well in matric or school in general was all about sacrifice.  “At the beginning of last year, I told myself that some things require sacrifice and I decided what I wanted to sacrifice and what I didn’t. Preparing for matric is about preparing yourself mentally and to simply work hard,” she said  ALSO READ: Get your IEB matric results right here at midnight “It is easier said than done but you just have to work hard and keep your nose in the books.”  Van Zijl said the challenges experienced during her journey were the continuous examining. She said Matric was almost like revision of what you have learnt over the past 12 years and it required consistency.  “It is not like you are learning new stuff which is very difficult but it is that you are doing three sets of different exams which is a lot of studying which may take a big mental toll on some people,” she said.  “I am a very high strung person and I put a lot of pressure on myself in terms of academic results so it is difficult to be in that state of worrying about tests and exams because the exams do not stop coming.”  Anticipated as she is about to kick start her career, Van Zijl said she would be furthering her studies at Stellenbosch University to pursue a degree in Biology with a focus in psychology.  “I am not entirely sure what I am going to do after my degree but I know I have interests in psychology. I will also continue with dancing because it is something I love doing.”  Van Zijl concluded it was important people maintained their love for learning and enjoy as much as their can.  ALSO READ: Tips on how to find a job after completing your matric “As kids we wish away our schools years. As life changes every day, I have learned to enjoy learning new things so people should relax and enjoy as much as their can,” she said.  -lungas@citizen.co.za