Once regarded as being solely for people who don’t like driving or who are simply too lazy, automatic cars have become more and more popular. Whether it be for commuting or a real must-have requirements, the importance of an automatic gearbox no longer warrants questioning as it often rates as a deal-breaker for many buyers. ALSO READ: Fuel price woes: February increase will be bigger than expected And given South Africa’s flip-flopping fuel prices, the combination of a small car with an automatic gearbox is ideal as it is light on fuel. With this in mind, The Citizenlooks at five affordable automatic cars for less than R250 000 that won’t run away with your wallet at the pumps. Although its cheaper sibling, the S-Presso GL AMT holds the distinction of being the country’s cheapest automatic car at R176 900, the Celerio, arguably, makes for a more compelling buy not only from a value-for-money perspective, but also safety as it comes with Electronic Stability Programme as standard. Up front, the normally aspirated 1.0-litre three-cylinder engine develops 49kW/89Nm delivered to the front wheels through a five-speed automated manual gearbox Suzuki refers to as AGS or Auto Gear Shift. With a claimed fuel consumption of a miserly 4.2 L/100 km, the Celerio will travel an impressive 762 km on its 32-litre tank, according to Suzuki. The model that runs the Celerio the closest, the Agya debuted two years ago as the replacement for the Aygo with value being its core focus. Equipped with amongst others, air-conditioning, 14-inch alloy wheels, LED headlights and dual airbags, the main drawcard, at this price level, is the standard fitting of an audio system. It, however, lacks the touchscreen functionality of the Celerio’s seven-inch setup. Weighing in at 855 kg, the Ayga’s 1.0-litre petrol engine produces the same outputs as that of the Celerio, with the transmission being a torque-converter four-speed automatic. Claimed fuel consumption 4.9 L/100 km with a range of 674 km possible on the 33-litre tank. A long-time favourite, whose appeal remains despite its advancing age, the funky Kia Picanto beats out the Celerio and Ayga for power, albeit with slightly reduced consumption. Priced at R1 000 more than the slightly better equipped Style, but countering by not having the smaller 1.0-litre engine, the 1.2-litre unit churns-out 61kW/122Nm delivered to the front wheels through a four-speed automatic. As mentioned, the thriftier engine comes at the cost of consumption, still rated at an acceptable 5.9 L/100 km. The claimed range is 593 km on the 35-litre tank. The top-spec model in the ever popular Swift range, the availability of an automatic comes as a boon to what has been Suzuki’s best-selling car in South Africa for years, with sales easily breaking through the 1 000 mark. Garnished with specification ranging from a touchscreen infotainment system, rear parking, a reverse camera and Electronic Stability Programme, the Swift makes do with the same transmission as the Celerio, but makes 61kW/113Nm from its 1.2-litre engine. Tipping the scales at less than 900 kg, the claimed fuel consumption stands at 4.9 L/100 km with Suzuki alleging a distance of 755 km on the 37-litre tank. Despite having been around since 2007, the 500’s stylish retro-inspired looks continues to charm in a way none of its sub-R250 000 adversaries can match. Realigned last year to be more cost effective, the entry-level Cult, like the rest of the range, is propelled by a 875 cc turbocharged two-cylinder engine that buzzes-out 63kW/145Nm. Paired to a five-speed automated manual transmission Fiat calls MTA, the 500 Cult has a claimed fuel consumption of four-litres and according to Fiat, will travel a rather convenient 875 km on its 35-litre tank. Pricing information from duoporta.com.