Are you one of those lucky people who get everything right the first time? If so, then you could have been struck by ‘lucky girl syndrome,’ a new obsession that’s been sweeping TikTok since the beginning of the year. But what about talent and hard work, we hear you ask? It seems that they have little role to play for these social media users, who prefer to rely on this manifestation technique to turn the wheel of fate. “Fortune favors the bold,” or so they say. This well-known proverb suggests that individual skills, combined with a good dose of audacity, could lead to success. But are the most talented people, even if they think outside the box, sure to reach the top without an element of luck?  Not according to TikTokers who, while they have not conducted scientific research to support their claims, believe that autosuggestion, or manifestation, can be enough to bring about opportunities. This is what they call “lucky girl syndrome,” and it could well be that this new theory, albeit somewhat far-fetched, is already part of the daily lives of many users of the Chinese social network. This so-called syndrome has spread like wildfire on TikTok. The hype is such that, in just a few weeks, it has amassed nearly 80 million views on the Chinese social network, with a host of videos in which users confirm the validity of the method.  All of which is quite surprising. It’s difficult to trace the exact source of this trend, but one of the oldest and most viewed videos is attributed to the user Laura Galebe. Speaking to the camera, the young woman explains all about “lucky girl syndrome,” arguing that “the secret is to assume and believe it before the concrete proof shows up. BE DELUSIONAL.” In the video, which has been viewed nearly three million times and liked nearly 500,000 times, the user says she is “one of the luckiest people [she] knows.” She adds: “I get the most insane opportunities thrown at me out of nowhere,” before concluding, “I always expect great things to happen to me, and so they do.”  In less than two minutes, the young woman has seemingly managed to convince millions of TikTokers, who thank her, and intend to use this positive energy to boost their opportunities in 2023. In the comments, some people also make the link with the law of attraction, which is the belief that we can ‘attract’ or ‘manifest’ negative or positive things through thought or visualization. A few days later, at the end of December 2022, two other users fueled the buzz by also explaining this new theory. In a video entitled “How we changed our life with lucky girl syndrome,” the user Skzzolno and a friend confirm, in turn, the legitimacy of this method, with examples. This further post on the subject has been seen more than 4.5 million times, and liked nearly 800,000 times. ALSO READ:  Since then, video after video has been posted about the success of this “lucky girl syndrome technique”: “How to activate lucky girl syndrome & manifest your best life,” “Lucky girl syndrome is real and I’ll tell you why,” “I have lucky girl syndrome,” read the titles on a host of videos. And some of them are ready to go even further: “How to take lucky girl syndrome to the next level,” promises one user. It seems that laziness is having a moment right now, a phenomenon that’s also spreading like wildfire at the beginning of the year, and in many sectors, including fashion. As such, it’s only too tempting to see a link between these two “syndromes.”  And it’s perhaps especially tempting when considering anyone who happens to be ‘lucky’ enough to be considered privileged… But that’s not to say that luck does not exist, far from it. Beyond beliefs, many scientific theories and research have been studying the subject for years. Nevertheless, it’s probably better to count on your skills, your will power and your determination in order to achieve success, whatever the field. Ultimately, “lucky girl syndrome,” which in some ways evokes the Coué method of autosuggestion, is neither dangerous nor toxic, as long as you don’t start blaming or punishing yourself if negative thoughts arise. As a result, there is nothing to stop you from making 2023 the year of positivity and optimism, and to see if this positive energy will really lead you into a whirlwind of opportunities and happiness. Be sure to check in this time next year… READ NEXT: Top TikTok Challenges of 2022