Escalated and indefinite periods of load shedding have affected practically every aspect of South African life and entertainment is no different. Keeping this in mind, South African free-to-view direct broadcast satellite television provider OpenView saw it fit to introduce a new pop-up channel.  “In a time when South Africans feel helpless and crippled by load shedding, Openview is once again stepping up as a beacon of light and giving households nonstop entertainment with their favourite shows. “The industry-first initiative also adds value to brands and advertisers by repeating their ads on a pop-up channel 18 hours per day, every day,” said the broadcaster in a statement.  The concept seems simple; a steady stream of repeats of local dramas over an 18-hour period each day so that you can “catch it when you catch it, as long as you catch it”. “Power-UP! is the new pop-up channel that ensures viewers never miss a show again – no matter how your load shedding schedule changes,” explained OpenView. Power-UP! can be found on channel 114 on Openview will be available from 23 January 2023.  The channel will repeat all the e.tv hit prime-time shows like Durban Gen, House of Zwide, Scandal! and Imbewu from Monday to Friday, running over two-hour loops.  The channel will be on from 6am until midnight every day.  Over the weekend, repeats of The Black Door will air from 11 pm onwards. “Afrikaans telenovela True-At-Hearts will also not be lost in the dark… Power-UP! will showcase the omnibus repeats of all the best-loved Afrikaans dramas on weekends.”  READ: e.tv to compete with streaming services with Openview Plus To that end, #DisComplicated, Daai Crazy Somer, Die Vertroueling, and more will be available if you missed them during the week due to load shedding. Considering how many South African television viewers feel about repeats, only time will tell how the receive this new channel. Last November, the eMedia Group released what it calls “positive and very satisfactory half-year results, despite the tough economic climate”. According to the eMedia Group, it continues to be the biggest broadcaster in South Africa – a position held since September 2021 with a combined 36.2% in prime time, up from 31.8% in the prior period, an increase of 14% and 33.3% share for 6am to 12am.  “What makes this noteworthy, is that amidst so many external factors affecting the industry, and business in general in South Africa, each of the group’s business areas has performed exceptionally well.” “Yet we are happy to report that e.tv has only had a 5% decrease in the average minute rating, compared to 16.5% of an AMR reduction for the industry. It shows that we are doing something right, and that our programming is in line with audience demand. It further illustrates that we are giving our advertisers value for their spend with us,” commented Khalik Sherrif, eMedia CEO.   e.tv launched 24 years ago, and is still the main generator of revenue for the eMedia Group, consistently improving its market share which was the foundation of the success of the Group for the period in review.  Openview is now in more than 3 million households across South Africa and its channels and content remain tops.  An investment in local and the OTT world continues to show satisfactory growth. eVOD launched in August 2021, and reached an impressive milestone of 500 000 subscribers within a year.  eNCA also continues to be a leading and discerning voice in the ever-competitive local news landscape despite only being on the premier bouquets on DStv. It has signed a further five-year exclusive deal with Multichoice South Africa which ends in March 2027. *Compiled by Kaunda Selisho READ NEXT: Openview, now powered by 2 million homes