The South African Jewish Board of Deputies (SAJBD) and Angel Network have been financially assisting charity organisations committed to helping the Boksburg explosion survivors and traumatised family members.  Following the explosion of a gas tanker that became stuck under a railway bridge, 37 people have been confirmed dead.  NOW READ: Boksburg tanker explosion death toll rises to 37 Yesterday, the Clive Mashishi Foundation and Fingertips of Africa distributed food to those affected by the disaster.  They also attended a funeral of four members of one family who were laid to rest in Boksburg, Ekurhuleni. Devastated families are struggling to come to terms with the tragedy and although they are receiving trauma counselling, they are finding it difficult to cope and cannot stop crying.  “Today, we started at Ramaphosa informal settlement where we visited a family which lost a mother and a 14-year-old child who was trying to save her younger sibling from the fire.  Unfortunately, the child died. “We will help them with funeral arrangements. We left meals for them but it is quite evident that they need further trauma counselling; the wound is still new,” said Pastor Tshepo Mosala, spokesperson for the Clive Mashishi Foundation.  “We are trying, everybody is trying. The victims are crying, we too are crying. It is difficult to try not to cry in this tragic situation.”  Another victim of the blast, who lost both his legs, received food parcels from these three organisations. Mosala said many families needed food but there was not enough for everyone.  He committed the foundation to ensuring that everybody received a meal. SAJBD spokesperson Charisse Zeifert said: “We are humbled to be part of the process of helping in this horrific disaster and our thoughts and prayers continue to be with those affected as they try and piece their lives together.” According to Zeifert, it had been possible to provide more than 1 200 meals for over 10 different funerals, repair 120 windows, fix electricity for damaged buildings and provide trauma counselling to the victims.  Fingertips of Africa founder Yehuda Lazarus said they used food as a marker to show love and kindness.  “The focus has been on helping those most affected by the Boksburg tragedy through assisting in the catering for the funerals and uplifting spirits in the hospital for doctors, nurses and general hospital staff on Christmas day,” said Lazarus.  “If it were not for the SAJBD’s funding in conjunction with the Angel Network, we would not be able to do what we do for the funerals. We are fortunate to operate in an ecosystem where everyone helps each other.” ALSO READ: Boksburg explosion: Some family members still desperately trying to locate loved ones