By Mohamed Mansour Nassor Instrengthening the government’s delivery capacity to achieve the vision for transformation and sustainable development of the isles,President Hussein Ali Mwinyi established a Presidential Delivery Bureau (PDB) An organ with a mandate to co-ordinate and accelerate implementation of the government’s strategic priorities and delivery of results for social-economic transformative impacts in Zanzibar. PDB was launched by President Mwinyi on  December 2, 2022. The Presidential Delivery Bureau is an institution under President’s Office – State House established aiming and targeting at improving delivery of public services in Zanzibar.  The overall objective of the PDB is to coordinate services delivery and expeditiously attain results in the key areas prioritized by the government based on the Presidential promise and translated into Key Result Areas (KRAs) to be delivered on by the Ministries Departmental Agencies (MDAs).  PDB by design is lean but highly skilled and specialized in the relevant fields of the identified priority sectors. This is important to enable the Bureau to adequately monitor and coordinate the thematic teams in the Ministerial Delivery Units (MDUs) in charge of each key priority sector, supported by specialists and consultants from time to time as may be needed. Currently, the PDB has Deputy CEO (Dr. Josephine Rogate Kimaro), Blue Economy Manager (Captain Hamad Bakari Hamad), Tourism Manager (Arif Abbas Manji), Finance and Resource Manager (Fadhil Waziri Kindamba) and Media Expert (Mohamed Mansour Nassor).  The PDB is expected to drive implementation of priority projects that would contribute to transformative, sustainable and tangible outcomes and impacts in the following identified four broad priority sectors/areas, namely: the Blue Economy; Tourism; Infrastructure and Social Services. The priorities come from the promise of the President during the elections campaigns, CCM Manifesto (2020-2025), Zanzibar Development Plan (2021-2026) and from the Zanzibar Development Vision (2020-20250).   Why the PDB was established  The formation of the PDB by Zanzibar comes at the backdrop of the fact that Political leaders around the world are grappling with sluggish economies, growing inequality and a profound sense of citizens demanding for tangible and quick results. In this demanding environment, one innovation by governments that is especially becoming popular internationally is the establishment of Delivery Bureaus or Units.   There are key drivers for the establishment of the Presidential Delivery Bureau in Zanzibar:     The PDB will specifically check, monitor, and coordinate the performance and delivery of specific targets and milestones by the respective Ministerial Delivery Bureaus (MDUs) required in achieving the Key Result Areas (KRAs) of the key priority sectors. The PDB will ensure that the government achieves its delivery priorities, across the key areas of public service as part of the whole-of government approach to quality service delivery. It is important to stress that PDB will not be undertaking direct delivery roles of the MDAs but rather to monitor and facilitate implementation of the delivery agreements between the President and Ministers in achievement of the KRAs.  Experience from other countries which have had very successful and effective delivery bureaus such as the UK, have used innovative performance measures called Public Service Agreements (PSAs). PSAs contain a set of targets to be achieved in each period of time and how performances against these targets will be measured. Another exemplary model is the Rwanda Performance Contract (imihigo). They are binding agreements between the President and government institutions signed annually and tracked on a quarterly basis. The Imihigo KPIs provide a clear framework to establish accountability at a level directly relevant to citizens. In East Africa another good example is PDB of Kenya which has done a great job at larger magnitude in particular under the regime of President Uhuru Kenyatta.  For the PDB to succeed it is important the PDB that it works closely, with the other government institutions to ensure efficiency, effectiveness of the MDAs through co-ordination and collaboration.  Mohamed Mansour Nassor is Communication & Media Expert at the Presidential Delivery Bureau (PDB) 