Dubai recently hosted what many are calling the opening of the world’s most luxurious hotel and a set of South African stars were lucky enough to be in attendance to see Beyoncé’s headline-making performance.  According to Daily Mail, the Cuff It singer was paid a reported $35 million for her one-hour show at the launch event for Atlantis The Royal in Dubai. The performance was her first concert performance in four years.  Over the weekend, people across the world flooded social media with posts about how jealous they were that they were not able to attend the hottest event in the world in recent years. Singer Lizzo was even caught watching the events on a prohibited Instagram live stream. Prior to the concert, attendees were instructed that they were not allowed to capture pictures and videos of the performance.  “I have seen Beyoncé perform live 10 times in my lifetime… and today the 11th time was on an IG live across a body of water of a hotel and I’m not ashamed,” tweeted Lizzo after people reported seeing her logged into the live stream.  Some South African celebs were lucky enough to get to see it in person having been invited to Dubai for the launch event.  This includes the likes of Thando Thabethe, Maps Maponyane, Trevor Stuurman and Rich Mnisi.  Best night of my life!!! #BeyonceInDubai pic.twitter.com/Y56w14ROyw— Thando Thabethe (@Thando_Thabethe) January 22, 2023 Maps Maponyane at the #AtlantisTheRoyal opening in Dubai last night pic.twitter.com/Ni04b2ibjC— Fashion MOEments (@FashionMOEments) January 22, 2023 Daily Mail reports that the hotel’s guests get complimentary gold-plated toothbrushes, combs and razors as well as a ‘menu’ of seven pillows, personal butlers, and the chance to meditate with dolphins. “Its shop sells Picasso art, and there are 17 restaurants and bars involving eight celebrity chefs, including Heston Blumenthal’s debut bar, Resonance, where guests can admire a 21ft high aquarium containing 4 000 jellyfish,” reported the publication.  According to Arabian Business, it is the first hotel to be designed with Instagram in mind.  The hotel aims to primarily attract social media users, aged between 30 and 60, and boasts a series of features designed to look good in photos. The cheapest room at Atlantis The Royal in Dubai is $1 800 (R30 875) a night. The VIP-only launch party took place ahead of the full opening scheduled for next month. Kendall Jenner, Rebel Wilson, Liam Payne, Chloe Bailey, Halle Bailey, Letitia Wright, Real Housewives of Dubai stars Lesa Milan and Chanel Ayan as well as Beyoncé’s husband Jay-Z, her mother Tina Lawson and their children were among the international celebrities in attendance.  READ NEXT: Not just for the rich – Dubai, an affordable travel destination