One of South African cricket’s brightest prospects, Dewald Brevis, has opened up about his experience of the SA20 competition, which reached the halfway mark at the weekend. Brevis got the world’s latest Twenty 20 competition off with a bang when he smashed 70 not out for MI Cape Town in their opening game two weeks ago. While his form has dipped since then, he has still managed to score 135 runs at an average of 27 to sit 17th on the run scorers list. His strike rate is 109.75. Leading the way is Jos Buttler with 234 runs and he’s followed by Will Jacks (208), Heinrich Klaasen (194), Aiden Markram (185), Faf du Plessis (164), Philip Salt (159), and Quinton de Kock (159). Asked about his experience playing for the Mumbai Indians in the Indian Premier League as well as MI Cape Town, Brevis said: “I’m so happy. My blood is blue, and my favourite colour is blue. “So, to be a part of this one family is amazing. The set-up is also fantastic here in Cape Town, just like it is in Mumbai.” ALSO READ: Only the mean-spirited would not be thrilled by Dewald Brevis At just 19 years old, Brevis has shared fields all over the world, including in the on-going SA20 League, with cricketers he idolised growing up. He, however, believes his experience of playing in the IPL last year helped him get over any nerves about playing alongside his heroes. “I think I learned that lesson at the IPL. So, fanboy moments were massive for me because I idolised lots of players like Rohit Sharma, Surya Kumar and all those big players. “I was advised by the coaching team not to be overawed and that I belong here. So what helped was that I too believed I belonged. I loved playing with these legends, and now I belong here.” Brevis and the majority of players involved in the SA20 League will get about a week’s break from Wednesday to allow the Proteas to take on England in a three-match ODI series, to be played in Bloemfontein and Kimberley. While training will no doubt continue, the players will also get a much-needed chance to recharge ahead of the competition finale. Brevis said he enjoyed relaxing. “I do anything I want to. If I want to go and sit in a restaurant and chill, I’ll do that,” he says.“If I want to watch a bit of Netflix, I will do that. “I basically do anything I want to, whatever makes me feel I am relaxed that’s what I will do.” And what does it take to become the best of the best? “I think in order to become the 1%, you must do what the 99% don’t do.”