Just days after making headlines for a missed appearance at controversial Cape Town nightclub, Saint, Akon has been spotted hanging around with his lifelong friend, Tbo Touch.  According to some flyers advertising the series of events, the musician was reportedly scheduled to appear at the Cape Town hotspot, three nights in a row.  The series of events also came with the exorbitant minimum spend limits that the club has come to be known for since advertising their New Year’s Eve party last month.  Three Nights With Akon came with a minimum entrance fee of R350 depending on how early patrons got to the club and the entrance fee was upped to R1 000 for those who wished to show up later.  Table bookings at Saint Lounge for the Three Nights With Akon event series also began at a minimum of R5 000 spend and a maximum of R1 million.  It seems as though all that Saint Lounge does these days is explain itself to the public and it did so once again after Akon failed to show up for the series of events.  According to a statement issued by the club, there seemed to be an issue between some intermediaries and Akon’s management resulting in him not being able to honour the booking. Saint Lounge also said, at the time the statement was issued, that they were “still trying to ascertain the facts thereof” as to why Akon didn’t show up even though they made the necessary payments to facilitate the booking.  Although Akon hasn’t been posting much about his trip on his own Instagram account, his old friend Tbo Touch has been sharing some images and videos showing a few of the things the musician has been getting up to during his visit.  The pair seemed to have been on a video set based on one of the videos Tbo Touch shared and the pair also had dinner at the Metro FM DJ’s home where “Uncle Akon” hung out with Tbo Touch’s sons.  After seeing that he actually was in the country, Tbo Touch’s followers joked about his failure to show up at Saint.  READ NEXT: Saint Lounge clears the air after Mihlali Ndamase’s accusations  *Compiled by Kaunda Selisho