A 29-year-old Eastern Cape man has been sentence to life imprisonment after stabbing his lover to death and injuring another woman. According to police spokesperson Warrant Officer Majola Nkohli, the Maluti Regional Court sentenced Khitleli Boitumelo to life imprisonment for murder, 10 years for attempted murder and 5 years for reckless and negligent driving. The sentences will run concurrently. The crime in question took place on 23 October 2020. “Khitleli Boitumelo attacked his girlfriend, Makumane Mpherwane (26), and another woman, who were both traveling in Mpherwane’s vehicle while on their way to work.  “Boitumelo pelted the vehicle with stones, forcing the driver (Mpherwane) to stop. Boitumelo then attacked and stabbed the two occupants.  “The two victims were then pulled out of the vehicle, and left stranded on the roadside. Unfortunately, Mpherwane succumbed to her injuries and died at the scene. The second victim survived and was taken to hospital,” said Nkohli. Police also reported that the accused drove off with Mpherwane’s vehicle and collided into two other vehicles.  READ MORE: Mpumalanga man stabs girlfriend to death but dies on the way to conceal her body Police launched a manhunt after receiving the complaint, and he was arrested in possession of Mpherwane’s vehicle.  Meanwhile, Lieutenant General Mene has welcomed the sentences and reiterated that the sentence will serve as an example to men who have no respect for women and who think that they can treat women as their commodities. “The accused had robbed society of a woman of integrity, who was a local school teacher and had much to offer to her community. We, the SAPS, will remain resolute in ensuring that perpetrators of Gender Based Violence and Femicide will receive the punishment they deserve. I applaud the excellent investigation by Sergeant Bene, who made sure that the maximum sentence was meted out to the accused.” In a separate incident, Limpopo police arrested a man for allegedly killing his girlfriend after she was released by the Nebo Magistrate’s Court in October last year. Zindle Mokoena, 21, was arrested after she allegedly stabbed the suspect during an altercation at his home. “Mokoena was arrested on charges of assault with grievous bodily harm after she stabbed the boyfriend with a sharp object. She appeared before the Nebo Magistrate’s Court on Friday, 7 October 2022, where she was released on free bail,” said police spokesperson Lieutenant-Colonel Malesela Ledwaba. ALSO READ: Man allegedly kills girlfriend hours after she was released by Limpopo court