SuperSport United managed to hold on to their unbeaten record at home in the DStv Premiership the season when they came back from one goal down to grab a point against Richards Bay. Sunday evening’s 1-1 draw made sure that Gavin Hunt’s side remained without defeat at the Lucas Moripe Stadium as they stayed in third place behind defending champions Mamelodi Sundowns and the Natal Rich Boys. Abel Mabaso could have had a PlayStation assist for Richards Bay towards the end of the first half when he beautifully played a back-heel into the path of Luvuyo Memela, whose strike was equally as breath-taking, but goalkeeper Ricardo Goss was up to the task as he made a fine save. ALSO READ: Mokwena still wants more as Sundowns smash top flight record Goalie Jamal Salim then played a long ball towards Sanele Barns and it looked as though United skipper Onismor Bhasera had the situation under control, as Goss came off his line to collect.  However, there was miscommunication between Goss and ‘Bash’, which allowed Barns to toe-poke the ball away from the duo, and he went around Goss before slotting in his third goal of the season. The Natal Rich Boys had a moment of panic when Salim went down for the second time in about five minutes. He had some discomfort with his ankle to the point that he could not take goal kicks. The fightback  Towards the last 10 minutes of the game, Gavin Hunt threw the dice and made a couple of changes. He took out Bradley Grobler, Gamphani Lungu, Patrick Maswanganyi and Thapelo Maseko and brought on the more direct Thamsanqa Gabuza, Iqraam Rayners, Jamie Webber and Thabang Sibanyoni. ALSO READ: Arthur Zwane: Sinking or cooking at Kaizer Chiefs?  It proved to be a master troke for Hunt as it took about five minutes for Rayners to find Gabuza wide on the left. The veteran attacker played what he intended to be a cross, but a deflection on defender Kaketso Majadibodu turned the ball into the back of the net for an own goal. Goss was the home side’s hero in the 88th minute. The man in the middle pointed to the penalty spot after he ruled that Keegan Johannes had fouled Somila Ntsundwana on the edge of the box. But Goss saved the spot kick.