Mzansi and Miss SA 2022, Ndavi Nokeri’s dreams of becoming the fourth Miss Universe from South Africa were shattered on Saturday evening at the New Orleans Ernest N. Morial Convention Centre where a stunning brunette from the United States of America was crowned Miss Universe 2022. Nokeri, who hails from a small village, Gabaza in Limpopo, made it to the Miss Universe Top 16, but that was unfortunately as far as she went in the competition. ALSO SEE: Prince Harry says he left most damaging claims out of memoir Three days before stepping onto one of the biggest beauty pageant stages in the world, Ndavi said that it has been her greatest honour in life to represent South Africa. “Inspired by the dust roads of my village, Gabaza in Limpopo where I walked barefoot so many times before, I could not help but be in awe of God’s greatness in making this moment happen so perfectly imperfect,” the beauty queen shared on Instagram along with snaps of her wearing a beautiful evening gown designed by Fashion Designer Juan William Aria. The evening gown Nokeri wore for the Miss Universe 2022 final was also designed by Aria. The fully beaded tribal pattern gown was hand beaded and assembled by 10 artisans and took more than 550 man hours to complete. Taking to Instagram on Sunday afternoon, Aria explained that the gown is called “Hositaki” meaning ‘Queen’ in Tsonga. “The radiant colours represent the vibrancy of our people and the beauty of our land,” he said. The Miss South Africa organisation congratulated Ndavi on an outstanding Miss Universe journey. “Our hearts are swelling with so much pride. You showed the world your magic since day one and we are looking forward to seeing you soar,” it said on Instagram, Fans and followers also flocked to the comment section to thank the beauty queen for representing South Africa so well on the world stage and to let her know how proud they are of her. The 28-year-old fashion designer and model, R’Bonney Gabriel is the ninth Miss USA to wear the Miss Universe Crown. She was also the first Filipino-American to win miss USA last year. The beauty queen, who lives in Texas, runs her own sustainable clothing line, who, during the top three question round said she uses fashion as a force for good. The Miss Universe runner-up was Amanda Dudamel of Venezuela and Andreína Martínez Founier of the Dominican Republic came in third.