Moshi. A bitter labour dispute between a commercial estate in Hai district, Kilimanjaro region, and its workers is brewing. Scores of Makoa Estate’s employees have protested against an alleged failure by their employer to pay their dues. The Kilimanjaro Regional Commissioner, Nurdin Babu, has promised to intervene and deal with the matter to conclusion. "I am aware of the complaints that have been raised by the workers," he told our sister newspaper, Mwananchi, over the weekend. He said he had dispatched the Regional Labour Officer to the Makoa farm to find out the root cause of the dispute. "The labour officer will listen to both sides of the conflict and suggest ways to solve the crisis," he pointed out. The 258 acre Makoa estate is owned by a German investor, Ms. Elizabeth Stegmaier, and is reported to have over 40 employees. The intervention by the RC follows an apparent failure by the Hai district commissioner to bring the warring parties together. Last week, Mr. Babu directed the DC to the farm owned by a foreign investor to find the root cause of the dispute. "A meeting was to be convened by the farm owner with the aggrieved workers in the presence of government officials. "Unfortunately, nothing has taken place. It appears my directive has been ignored, yet the workers are still protesting," he said. Mr. Babu said he would personally travel to the site later this week but was still waiting for feedback from the regional labour officer. On his part, Hai MP (CCM), Mr Saashisha Mafuwe has called on the authorities to intervene urgently in the crisis before things get out of hand. "I am worried things can get out of hand with untold consequences," he told reporters last week. The lawmaker minced no words that he was sympathetic to the aggrieved workers who must be paid their dues, denied by the investor. He added that the workers were angry and that the government should give enough weight to the crisis so that a solution can be found. When reached, the acting Regional Labour Officer, Ms. Neema said the labour laws were clear on the workers’ rights. "The workers have to be paid for their labour, including when they work overtime. Failure to do that is against the law," she said. She elaborated that employees are supposed to be on duty not more than 45 hours a week or nine hours a day. "Should they work beyond the stipulated hours, they will then be entitled to overtime payment," she added. According to her, the emoluments were mandatory in addition to the workers being paid monthly wages. However, the nature of the conflict at the estate is not clear, although it appears to revolve around demand for unpaid dues. When reached on the phone for comment over the weekend, Ms. Stegmaier declined to delve into the matter. "I will definitely not speak about the crisis," she said, apparently playing down the matter and wondering why the media was upbeat on the issue. When they reached out to the journalists last week, some workers claimed they had been sent home without being paid their dues. "Those sent home are not sure if they will be recalled back or not. They fear they could be denied their terminal benefits," said one of them, Hussein Sadick. He said the suspension of workers has lately become common and wondered if the farm management was aware of the labour laws. Another employee who identified himself as Anderson Mshana claimed he had worked there for two years without a binding work contract as required. On his part, Justin Lukumay said he had been the estate’s employee for over 20 years, but his employer has been quiet on his terminal benefits.