Orlando Pirates coach Jose Riveiro has explained why it is so difficult to make it into the Bucs line-up after Terrence Dzvukamaja’s exploits in their 3-1 victory over Golden Arrows in their DStv Premiership clash at the Orlando Stadium last Saturday. ALSO READ: Mokwena demands more from Sundowns star Dzvukamanja has been one of the forgotten players at Pirates, with the Zimbabwean striker only making one appearance for the club prior to the Arrows game. But given the chance on Saturday, he struck late to put Pirates 2-1 up and help then earn a crucial three points. Riveiro says he has a pool of players that is full of quality, and that making it into the matchday squad or the starting line-up depends on how the players do at training. “With the quality we have in every position, the forward department is not an exception. The competition is very difficult, it is difficult to make it into the starting eleven, it is even to make in the 20 (matchday squad),” said the Bucs mentor. “So, when the players are on the field it means they had a good time during the week. We believe in our training process. The ones who were in the 20-man list means that they did a good job during the week. Riveiro was happy to see Dzvukamanja scoring, especially coming from the bench with the team desperate for a win. “In this case, I am so happy, it was justice that he came in against all the odds, he was badly received, but he managed to score a goal which was very important to the team. That’s why they are here (players), to do their best,” he added. “If we (can) … support them in difficult moments … it is not the same when you go onto the field with 20 minutes left and you are leading 3-0, as when you go on with a responsibility to change the result. I think Terrence and all the players that came from the bench did a fantastic job.” The victory took Bucs from eighth spot on the league standings to fifth with 22 points after 16 games. It was also their first victory of the year and they will be looking to continue when they host Stellenbosch FC on Sunday.