In this week’s The Wife episodes, Hlomu finally realised she has a drinking problem, Mqhele breaks down and Naledi’s royal family is in crisis.  As Hlomu was attempting to get answers on why her life was in chaos, after nearly killing herself and her daughter Mthaniya, because of her drinking and driving. The guilt had been consuming her.  She and Mqhele organised to see a traditional healer. The healer told her in a private session he could only do the ritual if Hlomu brings the real father of Mthaniya to see him.  It is well suspected by The Wife viewers that Hlomu’s daughter Mthaniya is Qhawe’s after they had a heated one-night stand in season two.  ALSO READ: ‘The Wife’: Hlomu develops a drinking problem while Mqhele’s eye wanders I am not mad that they are making all of this Mqhele’s fault because it kinda is his fault, this man has abused Mahlomu to a point where she had to miscarry her first pregnancy, he beat her up infront of his brothers and r*ped her ???????? #TheWifeShowmax pic.twitter.com/R9tVtN9SEF— Enny Does It All❤ (@Queen_Enny19) January 26, 2023 The traditional healer went ahead and did a ritual on Mqhele after Hlomu bribed him to keep the secret of Mthaniya’s real father.  However, the healer did not keep the secret as he informed Mqhele on a separate occasion that his daughter wasn’t his biological child.  Some of Mqhele’s evil doings such as being responsible for Hlomu’s miscarriage finally caught up with him. He breaks down after the ceremony, admitting he was a very flawed man.  Mqhele’s tears ???????? #TheWifeShowmax pic.twitter.com/luiNg4zs3B— Enny Does It All❤ (@Queen_Enny19) January 26, 2023 In episode 36 of The Wife, Mqhele and Qhawe come to loggerheads after Qhawe threatened to take Mthaniya.  Naledi’s royal family in the Thabeng community are in turmoil as her sister Tshedi claims her husband is alive despite Qhawe murdering him. Tshedi is clearly spirally out of control as she grapples with the loss of her husband.  The family held a media briefing to talk to the community after the Lerumo disaster that left seven people dead due to illegal mining. READ NOW: ‘Scandal!’: Could Dintle’s husband, Reggie be her father? Naledi has led the family’s damage control as they are blamed for the mining tragedy. There has been a lot of pressure on them from the media, community and investigators as it is suspected they are responsible.  This scene of Naledi crying was heartbreaking.???? #TheWifeShowmax pic.twitter.com/Ohiip6Gw89— ????️‍???? G R A C I O U S ® (@_Thembalihle_) January 26, 2023 Naledi, a doctor was taking care of one patient from the disaster, however, the young Tumelo didn’t make it.  Viewers also got to see Naledi getting close to the Chief’s chosen suitor, with him proposing.  Despite Sambulo’s wariness of Xoli’s behaviour, as it was revealed she was a hidden enemy of the Zulu brother, the couple are back on track. However, Xoli is continuing to snoop for information against the Zulu family as she is on a revenge mission on behalf of her family, the Majola’s.  Xoli’s mom, Ma Khumalo, made a surprise visit to the Zulu household, as she wanted to meet her daughter’s husband, Sambulo.  MaKhumalo’s mother was clear about her daughter’s mission, that she had to kill the Zulu brother’s one by one.  Viewers did complain about the production quality of the show, at times as some scenes did overlap.  #TheWifeShowmax I’m done with your whole production. Ngikhathele????????????????????????????????????????????????today you broke me. pic.twitter.com/6XAI4d0abc— ???????????????????????????????????????? ???????????????????? ???????????????????????? (@Okuhle_Nkohla) January 26, 2023 This week’s episodes?? ???? #TheWifeShowmax pic.twitter.com/g292Mmk1Zp— zuzniza_ (@kelepara_) January 26, 2023