The Bulls have made multiple changes to their side as they prepare for battle against Lyon in their Champions Cup match at Matmut Stadium de Gerland in France on Friday night. Nizaam Carr will lead the team as Simphiwe Matanzima, Bismarck Du Plessis and Francois Klopper form a new front-row combination. Battleground tomorrow night ???? pic.twitter.com/Xk5SEy5iBH— Official Blue Bulls (@BlueBullsRugby) January 19, 2023 Ruan Vermaak will pair up with Janko Swanepoel in the second row, while Marco van Staden and Cyle Brink will have Carr for company in the back row. At the back, Embrose Papier (scrumhalf), Johan Goosen (flyhalf) and Cornal Hendricks (inside centre), who will be making his 50th appearance, come into the starting XV with Zak Burger and Chris Smith set to start off the bench, alongside Johann Grobbelaar, Gerard Steenekamp, Mornay Smith, Elrigh Louw, Lionel Mapoe and Ruan Nortje. ALSO READ: Bulls’ fresh Champs Cup challenge: One day to prep for Lyon clash Bulls backline coach Chris Rossouw said the rotational moves were done to look after the players and ensure their welfare remained a top priority. “Ruan (Nortje) has played every minute of rugby of every match he has played since the beginning of the season, and the same with Harold (Vorster), who has played a lot of rugby since making his return from injury, so it is important to manage him well too,” Rossouw said. “This is all part of the rotation plan that we have had since the beginning of the year.” The Bulls are on a quest for a third victory of their debut campaign in the European competition, hoping to emulate their triumphant 42-36 victory on home soil in the opening round as they go in search of a spot in the last 16. Their hosts are still without a win and will be eager to correct this in their final pool fixture, making this an appetising clash for rugby fans across the two hemispheres. ALSO READ: SA teams to ‘host’ Champs Cup semi-finals away from home “We believe that our team can do the job for us, but we know it will be extremely difficult because Lyon is a top side,” Rossouw said. “It is our first time in France, so it is a new experience. It is extremely cold and that presents a great challenge for us, but the guys are quite excited.” Kurt-Lee Arendse, Canan Moodie, Wandisile Simelane, Cornal Hendricks, David Kriel, Johan Goosen, Embrose Papier, Nizaam Carr (capt), Cyle Brink, Marco van Staden, Janko Swanepoel, Ruan Vermaak, Francois Klopper, Bismarck Du Plessis, Simphiwe Matanzima Bench: Johann Grobbelaar, Gerard Steenekamp, Mornay Smith, Ruan Nortje, Elrigh Louw, Zak Burger, Chris Smith, Lionel Mapoe