Musician D​​oja Cat officially stole the show at Haute Couture Week when she arrived at Schiaparelli’s latest fashion show in one of her most dramatic looks to date.  The star embodied the concept of “scarlet” with her body covered in red paint and 30 000 red Swarovski crystals. It was at this same show that reality TV star and makeup mogul Kylie Jenner wore a Schiaparelli lion’s head design before it even hit the runway.  According to CNN, the eye-catching outfit worn by Doja Cat was custom-designed by Schiaparelli’s creative director Daniel Roseberry and it was brought to life by makeup artist Pat McGrath.  McGrath shared a behind-the-scenes video showing how her team spent almost five hours completing the look. Doja Cat wore the look to Schiaparelli’s Couture Spring Summer 2023 show at the Petit Palais in Paris.  CNN reports that the show was the opening event of the biannual Haute Couture Week in the fashion-loving city. According to Roseberry’s show notes, the latest collection was inspired by Dante’s “Inferno” and the nine circles of hell.  “This collection is my homage to doubt,” he wrote in his show notes. ALSO READ: ‘Half of my family is black from South Africa’ – Doja Cat apologises for racial controversy “One cannot exist without the others. It is a reminder that there is no such thing as heaven without hell; there is no joy without sorrow; there is no ecstasy of creation without the torture of doubt. My prayer for myself is that I remember that always – that, on my most difficult days, when inspiration just won’t come, I remember that no ascension to heaven is possible without first a trip to the fires, and the fear that comes with it. Let me embrace it always,” he added. Looks from the collection have colloquially been referred to as Inferno Couture.  Other looks from the collection include outfits featuring foam animal heads that have sparked curiosity and controversy due to how realistic they looked.  Kylie Jenner wore one of the looks with a foam lion head.  Vogue UK reports that along with the lion and the snow leopard, it represented the animals Dante equates to lust, pride and avarice. The collection – which featured a few looks with exaggeratedly large shoulders paired with tiny, dainty waistlines – was also hailed for what many fashion critics called “impeccable tailoring”.  READ NEXT: Doja Cat is selling her $2.5 million Beverly Hills home