Here’s your morning news update: An easy-to-read selection of our top stories. Stay up to date with The Citizen – More News, Your Way. President Cyril Ramaphosa has filed his heads of argument in the urgent interim interdict application in the High Court in Johannesburg. Former president Jacob Zuma, who is the first respondent in the application, also filed his heads of argument today. Ramaphosa’s urgent interdict application will be heard by a full bench of the High Court in Johannesburg tomorrow. Zuma instituted a private prosecution against Ramaphosa on the eve of the African National Congress (ANC) national elective conference, accusing the president of being an “accessory after the fact” in a criminal offence alleged against Advocate William Downer, who is accused of improperly sharing information in terms of the NPA Act. The Department of Health says new Covid-19 variant may not see a large wave of infections in South Africa. The highly transmissible XBB.1.5 variant was recently detected in the country. According to the department, the XBB.1.5’s symptoms are similar to the previous Omicron variants and resemble cold-like symptoms, such as runny nose, sore throat, cough and congestion. There was happiness, stress and drama as pupils went to school on Wednesday – some for the first time and others who are old hands. Connie Mokoena from Soshanguve accompanied her children Obakeng and Gonste to Lowe Primary School in Ga-Rankuwa, north of Pretoria, who were starting Grades 4 and 3. Mokoena said she was pleased with the proceedings of the first day at school. The relationship between the musician group Black Motion and its former member Bongani Mohosana, formerly known as Murdah Bongz but now goes by the name of Morda, seems to be damaged beyond repair as there is now a legal battle.  In 2022, the award-winning Afro-House group made up of Morda and Thabo Smol was dogged by rumours that they had split.  It appeared that the spilt was temporary and amicable as Morda was focusing on his solo career, however, there was no clarity where he stood despite a new member Problem Childten being introduced.  The Lions are supposedly still upbeat and in good spirits despite suffering three big defeats in recent weeks, according to assistant coach Ricardo Loubscher. The Joburg-based side have gone down 37-10 to the Sharks, 40-8 to the Stormers and 33-3 to Munster (last weekend) since just before Christmas last year. That is a total of 110 points conceded and just 21 points, and three tries, scored in their last three outings.  This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. This is a modal window. This modal can be closed by pressing the Escape key or activating the close button.