Andile Jali’s agent Mike Makaab, the boss of ProSport International, has indicated that they might be looking at other options for the midfielder’s future.  ALSO READ: Former Chiefs star’s career destroyed by fame Jali’s contract at Mamelodi Sundowns runs out at the end of the season but the Chloorkop side are yet to put an extension offer on the table.  The industrious former Orlando Pirates midfielder has served Sundowns with distinction since his return from overseas in July 2018.  But it appears the 32-year-old Jali might have served his time at Masandawana with a group of younger midfielders preferred ahead of him by coach Rulani Mokwena.  The likes of Tebogo Mokoena, Mothobi Mvala, Hashim Domingo and Siphelele Mkhulise have been preferred since Mokwena took full charge of the team.  There is also Bongani Zungu who recently rejoined after a lengthy stay in France still waiting for his chance as well. “I think it is decision time for them. If they don’t want Andile then they need to let us know,” said Makaab on Gagasi FM’s sport show on Monday afternoon. “We will have to respect that, and then we will have to move on. Like I have said to you before, there are a number of teams who have enquired about him.  “Not only locally but outside our borders as well. But our first choice would be for him to stay local.” Makaab then said Jali was already making plans for life after football and it would not be ideal for him to move outside the country at this stage.  “That is because he has his family here and he is building a life after football for himself here.  “We have to take all these into consideration (when making a decision on his future),” added Makaab.  While Makaab would not be drawn into mentioning the teams who have been asking about his availability, it is believed that Tanzanian giants Simba SC have shown interest.  Locally, Kaizer Chiefs have been mentioned as Jali’s possible next home. Phakaaathi can however reveal that AmaZulu FC are also in the running should Sundowns opt out.