Another dismal batting performance from the Joburg Super Kings saw them receive a second thrashing in a row, this time from the Mumbai Indians Cape Town in their SA20 match at Newlands on Saturday night. The Super Kings limped to an uncompetitive 105/9 at the end of their 20 overs after being inserted to bat by MI CT who won the toss, before rising star Dewald Brevis cracked a sparkling 42 off 34 balls (2×4; 3×6) to help set his side on course for a seven wicket win with 22 balls to spare. ALSO READ: New SA20 league is catching the interest of local cricket fans MI CT will however be disappointed that they couldn’t pick up the bonus point for winning within 16 overs, with Rassie van der Dussen’s pedestrian unbeaten 14 off 23 balls playing a part in that as they missed out on the extra point by just two balls. MI CT’s chase got off to the perfect start as Brevis and Ryan Rickleton, 21 off 24 balls (2×4), shared in a 65-run opening stand within the first nine overs. Brevis was the aggressor in the partnership, swatting Gerald Coetzee for a six over deep extra cover, while smashing a 102m six over long on off Aaron Phangiso, and then depositing him over long off as well. Coetzee finally made the breakthrough as Rickleton skied him to Alzarri Joseph, who took a good catch with the ball swirling in the wind, and had Brevis caught in his next over by Phangiso at long on, reducing MI CT to 75/2. Romario Shepherd had Grant Roelofsen (5) caught by Janneman Malan, with the score 87/3 in the 15th over, before Van Der Dussen and Sam Curran, 15no off nine balls (1×4; 1×6) eased them home. At the start of play an all-round bowling performance led by Proteas star Kagiso Rabada in his first game of the competition helped MI CT restrict the Super Kings to just over a hundred. Rabada picked up brilliant figures of 2/12 in four overs, while he was backed up well by Rashid Khan, 2/18, Odean Smith, 2/10, and George Linde, 2/25. Rabada bowled opener Reeza Hendricks (2) with a superb ball that nipped off the seam and took the top of off stump, and picked up his second towards the end of the innings, again getting a ball to nip off the seam and take the edge of Gerald Coetzee’s (1) bat. The Super Kings batting scorecard was a disaster to look at, with Leus du Plooy (21) top scoring, and the fact that extras was the second highest scorer in the innings, along with Janneman Malan with both managing 16, told the story. It could have been even worse for the Super Kings after they had been reduced to 84/8, but George Garton (13no) and Phangiso (10no) batted out the last few overs to get their side over the hundred run mark, which was no challenge at all in the end.