Former Kaizer Chiefs and Orlando Pirates midfielder Jabu Mahlangu has accused Mamelodi Sundowns of destroying Bafana Bafana by acquiring the services of some of the best talent in South Africa only to make them bench warmers.ALSO READ: Chiefs deny reports they are facing another transfer banIn a video that is trending on Twitter, Mahlangu says he has stopped watching Premier Soccer League games because the standard has dropped because Sundowns are using their strong financial muscle to dominate other teams.  Believe it or Not. Fact ????What's your take football lovers? pic.twitter.com/xcY6HazjnS— Jabu Mahlangu (@JabuMahlangu12) January 23, 2023 “The PSL is not watchable, at least to me. I’m failing to watch PSL games because the PSL standard has dropped a lot,” says Mahlangu.“We suggested the issue of financial fair play in the PSL but Masandawana fans (are happy)… obviously because they want their team to win all the time, but our national team is dead now.“Let’s speak the truth and stop siding with our teams, no guys something must be done,” he added. “If you check the game between Chiefs and Sundowns and look at the team that was selected (for Sundowns) and also check players such as Kapinga, Lebusa, Rivaldo [Coetzee]… the list of players that are sitting on the stands is endless.“That’s another top team of players sitting in the stands that should be playing in another team. “They (Sundowns) come and claim they want to help Bafana Bafana become a top national team, but how is that going to be possible if all our best players are in one team and they don’t play?”“They (Sundowns) know what they are doing is destroying South African football. Let’s not be personal guys and no insults please. Let’s talk about football,” concluded Mahlangu. While some agreed with Mahlangu, others like former Pirates and SuperSport United winger Daine Klate disagreed, saying it was up to the likes of Chiefs and Pirates to keep up with Sundowns.  I think the rest just needs to catch up with Sundowns, if they dont then Sundowns must win every season. The work and process they followed over the years took a lot of time!!! So credit for all the investing and the success is well deserved!!— Daine Klate (@Klatey7) January 24, 2023 I think lets leave Sundowns and start talking about what the rest must must do to get to that level!!!!  Some dont have training facilities how will success arrive?— Daine Klate (@Klatey7) January 24, 2023