Zanzibar. Le Mersenne Beach Resort, part of Autograph Collection Hotels, opens today, joining the Autograph Collection brand’s diverse and dynamic portfolio of more than 180 inspiring and distinctive hotels carefully crafted with vision and passion. Le Mersenne Beach Resort plans to redefine the guest experience with a focus on welcoming you to their island family. Embracing the family ideals of the island, the concept allows guests to embrace the local culture and be treated as they would be in their home away from home. In addition to this, the hotel has undergone a complete renovation of guest rooms, adding technology features such as smart hospitality TVs, high-speed internet, and mobile keys for the doors. The lobby has also been renovated and now features a lobby bar and business center. La Mer Restaurant has been renovated and now includes new design elements to reflect the uniqueness of the Autograph Collection. Guests can also enjoy a new rooftop BBQ restaurant, Sérénité Spa, and a new fitness centre with state-of-the-art Technogym equipment, a personal passion project from the hotel's founder and managing partner, Riaz Mawani, who was originally born and raised in Zanzibar and has family origins tracing back to the 1880s. After seeing the growth in the tourism industry on the island, he felt that there was no better time to bring his wealth of knowledge in the industry back to his homeland. He and his partnership group of all family members began the task of elevating what was expected from the normal 5-star hotels in Zanzibar. After 3.5 years of construction, their dreams have finally become a reality. Family being the core element of everything the partnership group stands for, Le Mersenne is no different. Mersenne is the name of the family's newest member and the portfolio's flagship property. Therefore, it is important for guests to feel as though they are a part of the family when they come to visit. It is a crucial component not only of the ownership group's business structure, but also of the core values instilled in them by Zanzibari culture. Family is everything, and Le Mersenne cannot wait to welcome everyone to theirs. From design, style, restaurants, atmosphere, and hospitality experience, Le Mersenne Beach Resort stands alone as the most sought-after destination hotel in Zanzibar.