Dewy and glowing skin is all anyone can talk about when it comes to beauty and skincare. However, if your skin regularly sparkles and shines in an unflattering way you might have oily skin. According to the team over at Fundamentals Skincare, professionals classify oily skin as the result of excess sebum production. Sebum is a natural oil that protects skin and hair. “Everyone’s skin produces sebum, but oily skin tends to make more of it, leading to a greasy appearance.” The experts further advise that you need to be extremely careful when establishing a skincare routine for oily skin because one misstep can make your skin even more oily. The excess oil could possibly cause breakouts of acne which, in turn, may leave behind dark marks and scars. “Breakouts and acne are often associated with oily skin. Even most anti-acne products in the market cater to the oily skin type. Therefore, when treating your oily skin for breakouts and acne, it is vital to consider the below,” commented Natasha Davel, brand manager at Fundamentals Skincare before sharing some skincare tips for people with oily skin.  Most people may want to stop using moisturiser in the fear that it will make skin shinier, however, Davel advises choosing a light-weight “day-to-night” product. “Niacinamide is a great ingredient for oily, acne-prone skin as it moisturises, reduces dark spots post-acne, and helps to reduce pimples.” There is a noticeable trend to use this ingredient in more skincare products.  According to Davel, these work to keep your pores clear, balance oil levels and prevent future breakouts. ALSO READ: Beauty, skin and hair care products we’re excited to try in 2023 This includes ingredients like cocoa butter, coconut oil, petroleum jelly, silicone, alcohol, and other products that are oil-based, contain mineral oil, shea butter and vitamin E.  Davel and the team at Fundamentals Skincare state that the ingredients mentioned above are all likely to clog pores or cause irritation for people with oily skin types.  Generally, products that are water-based are great to use.  “You may also want to consider incorporating ingredients such as retinol in your regime to reduce inflammation in the follicle and Azelaic Acid to reduce build-up in the pores.” Also, on the packaging of products, look for the word “non-comedogenic”, which just means that it won’t clog pores. “Your skin isn’t shy. It will tell you what works or doesn’t work,” concluded Davel who also advised those having a hard time managing oily acne-prone skin to visit their dermatologist for professional help.  READ NEXT: Operation detox: Reviving skin radiance after the holidays Compiled by Kaunda Selisho