If you are into betting, chances are that you have lost more money than you’ve made. Well, SuperSport United head coach Gavin Hunt has a tip for you that might save you from more misery of losing a bet – Do not place a bet on Premier Soccer League teams. In a light hearted exchange with members of the media, the Matsatsantsa A Pitori mentor said it is hard to score bucks if you place a bet on local teams, pointing to the unpredictability of the DStv Premiership and other local competitions as the main factor. ALSO READ: Talking Point: Is there a ceiling for record breaking Sundowns? “Don’t bet in the PSL. You can never make money in the PSL because you can never predict the winner,” Hunt said. “It does not matter whether the team is playing at home or are on top of the league or bottom of the league. No, not in the PSL. When a team has not won for some time, those are the dangerous teams but when a team has been winning, you might have a chance,” he said, presumably not including Mamelodi Sundowns in his analysis, given that they have won 13 league games on the bounce.  Trip to The Birds’ nest Meanwhile, Hunt will hope to score big when he takes his side to Dobsonville where they take on Ernst Middendorp’s struggling Swallows side.  However, Hunt says it will not be a walk in a park as The Birds are looking to grow back their wings and move away from the danger zone. “It’ll be another dangerous game. But we will go in with a good mentality and we need to have quality to get the final pass that will lead to the goal and victory.  “We can talk all day and say it might be an easy win but they will be up for it. There are no easy games in this league,” said Hunt, who went on to express his desire to have Andile Jali, who is unsettled at Sundowns. ALSO READ: Zwane wants new Chiefs striker Basomboli to ‘hit ground running’ Andile Jali attraction Jali’s contract is set to expire in June and the defending DStv Premiership champions are yet to make tangible intentions to keep him.  The word going around is that Kaizer Chiefs are keen on getting Jali on board. But if the former Orlando Pirates star was to join The Spartans, Hunt says they would have  to first move mountains and redirect the rivers. “Do you think we can afford Andile Jali? We would have to sell the team to afford him. I would take him any day, but we can’t afford him,” said Hunt.