With the ball having been set into motion with the debut earlier this month of the sporty S model, Haval has seemingly completed the Jolion line-up with the addition of the hybrid Jolion HEV. Slotting-in above the S that temporarily topped the Jolion range, the HEV utilises the same parallel hybrid configuration as the H6 HEV, but with the 2.0-litre turbocharged engine bowing out in favour of the smaller 1.5-litre unit all Jolions feature. ALSO READ: Powered-up Haval Jolion S priced Combined, the setup produces 140kW/375Nm, 10kW/105Nm more than the S, with the inclusion of regenerative braking helping to reduce fuel consumption to a claimed five-litres per 100km.  Drive is again routed to the front wheels via what Haval calls a Dedicated Hybrid Transmission (DHT). No performance figures were divulged. Outwardly, the Jolion HEV differs from the conventional model by the inclusion of standard LED headlights, a diamond pattern grille, blue accented fog lamps, silver roof rails, a faux rear diffuser, HEV badge on the bootlid and revised front bumper and bumpers. As with the S, the interior has not been altered, though buyers do have the option of different specification items as the Jolion HEV can be had in Luxury or Super Luxury trim levels. Despite this, only small differences star as both grades get a six-speaker sound system, auto on/off headlights, dual-zone climate control with rear vents and folding electric mirrors as standard, together with the following: For the Super Luxury, the Luxury’s cruise control makes way for Adaptive Cruise Control, the 17-inch alloys for 18-inch wheels and the 10.25-inch touchscreen infotainment system for the bigger 12.3-inch. Additionally reserved for the Super Luxury is a wireless smartphone charger, heated front seats, a 360-degree camera system, Traffic Jam Assist, Autonomous Emergency Braking with Cyclist and Pedestrian Detection, Traffic Sign Recognition, Lane Centring, Blind Spot Detection, Lane Departure Warning, Lane Keep Assist and Lane Change Assist. In total, the Jolion HEV’s colour palette spans five hues; Hamilton White, Ayres Grey, Crystal Black, Mars Red and HB Blue with a four-service/60 000 km service, a five-year/100 000 km warranty and an eight-year/150 000 km battery warranty being standard on both models.