Here’s your morning news update: An easy-to-read selection of our top stories. Stay up to date with The Citizen – More News, Your Way President Cyril Ramaphosa has cancelled his working visit to the World Economic Forum in Davos, due to the ongoing energy crisis.His spokesperson Vincent Magwenya tweeted the president was convening a meeting with leaders of political parties represented in parliament, the National Energy Crisis Committee (NECCOM) and the Eskom board. Residents of Walkerville, south of Johannesburg, are on high alert after a fully grown female tiger escaped from a small holding on Saturday night. Walkerville community policing forum’s Gresham Mandy told Newzroom Afrika the animal has already killed a dog, and attacked a man who was walking about a kilometre away from the farm. It’s understood the big cat is the female half of a privately-owned tiger pair from a small holding on Walkers Fruit Farms. Former member of the African National Congress (ANC), Carl Niehaus, says plans are afoot to forge unity among different opposition parties ahead of the 2024 general election. Speaking to The Citizen on Sunday, Niehaus said a decision has yet to be made on whether or not to transform the Radical Economic Transformation (RET) Movement into a political party. He said he was confident the official launch of the movement will take place soon as soon as they receive a registration number from the department of Social Development. Mzansi and Miss SA 2022, Ndavi Nokeri’s dreams of becoming the fourth Miss Universe from South Africa were shattered on Saturday evening at the New Orleans Ernest N. Morial Convention Centre where a stunning brunette from the United States of America was crowned Miss Universe 2022. Nokeri, who hails from a small village, Gabaza in Limpopo, made it to the Miss Universe Top 16, but that was unfortunately as far as she went in the competition. The 28-year-old fashion designer and model, R’Bonney Gabriel is the ninth Miss USA to wear the Miss Universe Crown. She was also the first Filipino-American to win miss USA last year. Three people were killed on Sunday morning when a light aircraft crashed near the FNB Stadium in, Nasrec, Gauteng. The Accident was reported by the Aeronautical Rescue Coordination Centre (ARCC). Emergency services responded to the scene, along with the South African Police Service (Saps) and Civil Aviation Authorities. The drastic monthly changes in South Africa’s fuel prices left a mark in 2022 many consumers are eager to forget. A year in which the price of petrol and diesel reached record figures above R26 per litre in some instances, the flip-flopping nature of the increases and comparatively smaller decreases resulted in not only strained monthly petrol bills, but also higher food prices and less spending over the festive season for some. Available since the latter stage of last year, the myTank app has been rising in popularity with claimed downloads so far of 50 000 and unique 200 000 location searches.