Gauteng residents have been warned of extreme heat conditions in the coming week. Regional weather service, Gauteng Weather, has forecasted temperatures in the high teens following the persistent rain over the past few weeks. According to Gauteng Weather, the province will experience hot and dry weather. Temperatures in Johannesburg start of at a minimum of 13°C becoming very hot reaching a high of 32°C on Wednesday. Some rain has also been forecast for Johannesburg. Pretoria will also see very high temperatures with the mercury expected to start at a minimum of 15°C on Monday, and hitting a peak of 34°C on Thursday, with the possibility of some rain. ????HOT & DRY WEATHER AHEAD!!!Monday⛅️13|27°C☂️15%????BECOMING HOT????Tuesday????16|31°C☂️10%Wednesday????17|32°CThursday☀️17|32°CFriday☀️15|31°C#JHBWeatherMonday⛅️15|29°C☂️20%????BECOMING HOT????Tuesday????18|33°C☂️10%Wednesday????19|34°CThursday☀️19|34°CFriday☀️17|33°C#PTAWeather— Gauteng Weather (@tWeatherSA) January 8, 2023 The South African Weather Service (SAWS) has also forecast scorching temperatures for some other parts of the country warning of heatwave conditions. “AA heatwave with persistently high temperatures is expected over Sarah Baartman District Municipality, Inxuba Yethemba and Raymond Mhlaba Local municipalities of Eastern Cape, the Hantam Local Municipality and Pixley Ka Seme District Municipalities of Northern Cape as well as Xhariep district municipality of Free State until Thursday and Central Karoo District Municipality of the Western Cape until Wednesday.” Heat wave conditions are expected in the Central and Little Karoo of the Western Cape from tomorrow (09-11 January 2023). pic.twitter.com/ualSPMG20X— SA Weather Service (@SAWeatherServic) January 8, 2023 ALSO READ: What to eat and drink during a heatwave Residents have been urged to stay out of the sun and keep well hydrated during the hot weather, including applying sun screen when venturing out. “When temperature is extremely high, human’s ability to cool their bodies through sweating is reduced. This can be a real threat that leads to hyperthermia. People and animals can get heat exhaustion, heat stroke, faintness, dry skin and dehydration,” the Weather Service said. The hot weather is also likely to put pressure on the electricity grid as people use various appliances including aircons to keep cool. On Sunday, Eskom warned South Africans will have to work around the deliberate power cuts until further notice. ALSO READ: Ramaphosa: ANC’s top priority is to end load shedding While Eskom has downgraded load shedding to stage 3 from stage 4 on Monday morning, the power cuts are expected to last at least until 4pm, with the two stages being implemented interchangeably daily as the power utility battles several problems. Gauteng: Fine and warm becoming partly cloudy in the afternoon with isolated showers and thundershowers in the south-east. The expected UVB sunburn index: Very High. Mpumalanga: Fine and hot in the Lowveld, otherwise partly cloudy and warm with isolated afternoon thundershowers in the south. Morning fog expected on the escarpment.  Limpopo: Fine and warm to hot, becoming partly cloudy in the south in the afternoon.  North West: Fine and hot, becoming partly cloudy.  Free State: Fine and warm to hot becoming partly cloudy in the afternoon with isolated afternoon thundershowers in the extreme east.  Northern Cape: Morning fog along the coast, otherwise partly cloudy and warm to hot but fine and very hot in the north. The wind along the coast will be moderate to fresh southwesterly.  Western Cape: Morning fog along the west coast and adjacent interior, otherwise partly cloudy and warm to hot but very hot over the interior, where it will be fine. The wind along the coast will be light to moderate southerly to south-easterly but westerly to north-westerly along the west coast. The expected UVB sunburn index: Extreme. Western half of the Eastern Cape: Cloudy with a chance of morning drizzle along the east coast, otherwise partly cloudy and hot to very hot but warm along the coast. The wind along the coast will be light and variable east of Cape St. Francis at first, otherwise light to moderate south-easterly.  Eastern half of the Eastern Cape: Cloudy in the south-west in the morning, otherwise partly cloudy and warm to hot with isolated afternoon thundershowers over the interiorThe wind along the coast will be light to moderate southeasterly, becoming fresh north-easterly north of East London in the evening.  KwaZulu-Natal: Morning fog in places over the interior, otherwise fine and warm becoming partly cloudy over the interior with isolated afternoon thundershowers. It will be hot in places in the north. The wind along the coast will be moderate to fresh northerly to north-easterly, but strong north of Richards Bay The expected UVB sunburn index: Very High.