Newly recruited SuperSport striker Serigne Mamour Niang has been described asa  perfect fit by head coach Gavin Hunt, who hopes that the Senegalese goal-getter will be the solution to Matsatsantsa A Pitori’s struggles in front of goal. In the DStv Premiership this season, Hunt’s side have managed to score 21 goals and will hope to step up to their target of matching last season’s total tally of 36 goals. ALSO READ: SuperSport coach Hunt bemoans loss of Ditlhokwe to Chiefs The 24-year-old striker put pen to paper for a year and has an option to renew his deal for a further year. He is possibly there to replace seasoned attacker Thamsanqa Gabuza, whose future at the club is uncertain, given how the club’s management are looking to trim their tight budget.  Mamour Niang is Unified! ????????Welcome Home, Mamour! ????#MatsatsantsaUnified pic.twitter.com/ZazSWSvX36— SuperSport United FC (@SuperSportFC) January 26, 2023 Gabuza is linked with a move to Royal AM and Golden Arrows, where he cut his teeth in top flight football before he went on to join Orlando Pirates. “We wanted to bring in a younger striker to compliment the experience we have upfront. Niang is a typical number nine and he will be able to take off some of the workload from our strike force. His aerial power is going to cause teams problems and I’m looking forward to pushing him to higher levels,” said Hunt in a statement released by the club. “I am very excited to join SuperSport,” said Niang, who described Hunt as a father figure. “The coach is like a father to all of his players and he’s pushed me to work hard during all of our training sessions. I’m looking forward to meeting all the Matsatsantsa supporters,” he said. At his disposal, Hunt now has the club’s all-time leading goal scorer, Bradley Grobler, Niang, Gabuza alongside the versatile Gamphani Lungu and exciting young Thapelo Maseko. ALSO READ: ‘We are happy for Blom, but we move on,’ says Chiefs midfielder Maart The 24-year-old’s records are quite sketchy, but he comes with experience of playing the Caf Champions League, where he represented Senegalese outfit Teungueth in matches against Egyptian giants Zamalek, and four-time Champions League holders  Esperance of Tunis. He also helped Teungueth win the Senegalese league in the 2020/21 season.