The Gauteng Education Department said it had placed over 290 000 pupils for Grades 1 and 8 ahead of the start of the 2023 school year, which accounts for about 99.5% pupils. Gauteng Education MEC Matome Chiloane was briefing the media on Tuesday, in Kempton Park, on the progress of admission and placement of learners for the start of the year’s first term for inland schools on Wednesday. Chiloane said the department is continuing to place Grade 1 and 8 learners who were applied for during the 2023 Online Admissions application period. Today I made a presentation outlining to the public our readiness to reopen schools tomorrow, as well as give an update on Grade 1 & 8 learner placements. We want to assure parents that all their children will be placed. @EducationGP1 pic.twitter.com/CjjBkymvuw Chiloane said learners who still remain unplaced are mostly in “high pressure” areas. “Ekurhuleni north, namely the Olifant and Kempton Park area, where we are this morning, this is a high pressure area.” ALSO READ: ‘There’s just so much to buy’ – Parents complain about prices of school uniforms Chiloane said the department has since procured 419 mobile classrooms and building 219 brick classrooms to address the pressure of unplaced applications across the province. He said the department is also expected to provide catch-up programmes for learners. “We are aware that some parents have not yet had their children placed in schools, but we want to ensure that their children will be in school. We are working around the clock to ensure that those children are placed.” The department also said all vacancies in the Gauteng Education Department will be filled during the 2023 academic year.  “All additional educators will be placed in identified posts between November 2022 toMarch 2023. Qualifying temporary educators will be converted into permanent status after 3months.”  “All remaining vacant posts will be filled temporarily from 1 January 2023 until 31December 2023. Vacant promotional posts will be utilised to appoint temporary educators, until it is filled permanently,” the department said.  Chiloane will host the official opening of Mapenane Secondary School on 11 January 2023 as part of the Back-to-School Campaign. “Members of the executive council will also conduct oversight visits to monitor the overall readiness of schools on the day of re-opening of schools for learners as part of government’s commitment to education. The @GautengProvince, led by Premier @Lesufi, will on Wednesday, 11 January, lead the school reopening programme to mark the start of the 2023 academic year. The Premier & @EducationGP1 MEC @matomekopano will officiate the hand over of Mapenane Secondary School. #BacktoSchoolGP pic.twitter.com/lezGumjvbt— Gauteng Provincial Gov (@GautengProvince) January 10, 2023 Watch the briefing here: ALSO READ: 5 Lunch box ideas great for adults and kids