South Africans who are old enough to have witnessed Masechaba Khumalo’s rise to fame have known her by quite a few surnames over the years. Many of us were first introduced to her as Masechaba Lekalake. She later became Masechaba Ndlovu during her brief marriage to Vusi Ndlovu between 2015 and 2018.  Later, during a career change that saw her working as a government spokesperson, she asked to be referred to as Masechaba Khumalo, and now it seems we may have to get used to calling the award-winning radio and TV broadcaster something else.  I recently changed my surname to Khumalo on my online platforms to honour my maternal ancestry.This has been a personal and deeply spiritual journey.My identity remains intact. Taking to social media over the weekend, the broadcaster-turned-communications strategist shared a picture of herself wearing a veil and captioned the image “God’s time”.  YOU MIGHT ALSO LIKE: Mampintsha fires shots at Masechaba Ndlovu’s divorce This led her followers to believe that she was announcing a new marriage and they subsequently flooded her Instagram comments with congratulatory messages.  The department of sport, arts and culture spokesperson’s Instagram post comes about a month after confirming she was expecting. This would be her third child. She has two sons named Lungelo and King Itumeleng, from her first marriage to Mfundo Ntsibande. Over the years, the media personality-turned-government spokesperson has become increasingly protective of her private life, so the identity of her potential new husband remains a mystery to her scores of adoring fans. To date, Masechaba is best known for presenting shows such as Weekend Live, Into Africa, Afro Showbiz and eNews.  TVSA reports that she also hosted the highly popular SABC1 reality competition One Day Leader, in 2011 and again in 2013. Despite having a journalism degree, she has also dabbled in acting, having appeared on shows like Generations and the e.tv soapie Backstage in 2003. At the time of writing, she was still working as Minister Nathi Mthethwa’s spokesperson in the Department of Arts and Culture.  ALSO READ: Media personality Masechaba Ndlovu is expecting her third child