The Department of Higher Education and Training (DHET) has warned students and parents to be careful of illegal or “fly-by-night” colleges. Every New Year many prospective students across the country will be enrolling in several private higher learning institutions to further their studies. ALSO READ: Covid-19 hangover still weighing heavy on matric class of 2022 and their teachers The challenge of bogus colleges mushrooming all over South Africa around this time of year still remains a concern for the DHET. The so-called “fly-by-night” colleges are not registered as institutions of learning with the correct Sector Education and Training Authorities (SETAs), the Department of Higher Education and Training (DHET) or other relevant bodies. The Minister of Higher Education Dr Blade Nzimande says these institutions lure and mislead prospective students into believing that they offer qualifications recognised by the South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA). Nzimande has urged students and parents to first verify if institutions are registered with the department. “These illegal colleges offer compromised qualifications which are not recognised for employment purposes or for further studying,” said the minister in a statement. He said the department has been successful in shutting down these illegal operators.  However, while the department may be hard at work in eliminating these unregistered colleges, there are still many students who continue to register and are unlawfully granted these fake qualifications. “The number of colleges that are operating illegally has decreased tremendously over the years. The decrease can be attributed to our monitoring awareness campaigns and our collaboration with both print and electronic media.” Nzimande added that the department is working closely with law enforcement agencies to close down these colleges. He advised students who want to enroll at private colleges to check the registration status of such private colleges with the department or to contact the relevant SETA or SAQA directly. Students can also contact the department through its toll-free number 0800 872 222. “Alternatively, students can log on to the website of the department where the ‘Register of Private Colleges’ is published and updated on a regular basis.  “The website address is www.dhet.gov.za/resources/registers.” NOW READ: Education activist calls for 50% pass mark for all grades This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. This is a modal window. This modal can be closed by pressing the Escape key or activating the close button.