AmaZulu FC president Sandile Zungu left local supporters in shock when he suggested that his current coach Romain ‘Fohloza’ Folz is better than Benni McCarthy.  ALSO READ: Truter remains humble despite guiding Sekhukhune to the top In a radio interview this week, Zungu said Folz, who he nicknamed Fohloza when he joined AmaZulu, was the best coach the Durban side has had since he took over its ownership.  This did not sit well with some supporters who felt this was disrespectful to McCarthy who is now with Manchester United in the English Premier League. McCarthy guided Usuthu to their highest ever finish in the DStv Premiership when they finished second to Mamelodi Sundowns two seasons ago.  He was, however, fired after things could not go his way in his second season and he allegedly got into fights with the management.  “To be honest, Fohloza is the best coach we’ve ever had,” Zungu told SAfm’s Sport On with Thabiso Mosia this week.  “Since he’s been here we’ve come to appreciate how much science there is in football.  “Everything he does is so detailed. Even though I didn’t know much about him, I’m amazed at what he does,” added Zungu. “He is still going to surprise people. They must keep on bringing the criticism, he thrives on it. I met him at the season launch of DStv (Premiership)  and had a brief chat with him.  “And I was impressed. When he left Gallants, someone who I won’t mention said, ‘make sure we don’t lose this gem’.” Zungu said he understands that in the eyes of the club’s supporters, McCarthy remains legendary because of what he achieved. “Benni McCarthy remains the people’s darling and everyone doesn’t want him lost to the local scene, including me, I’m a big fan.  “He did wonders for the team but when we parted ways, I was cautious of our ability to finish in the top eight, let alone top four which is what we had agreed upon. “When the answer was not forthcoming, I did what I’m good at, which is to make a decision. “In leadership, the worst trait is indecisiveness. Some decisions may not be entirely correct but you have to make a decision. I think we made the right decision and I’d do it again.”