The Minister of Higher Education, Science and Innovation, Blade Nzimande has wished the matric class of 2022 well as they await their results. In a statement issued by his office, Nzimande assured current and prospective university students that the announcement and the release of the matriculation results will not affect the state of readiness for the 2023 academic year.  “Universities registration for the academic year 2023 commenced from the 16th January and anticipated to close on the 20th February. However, there will be several universities that will allow late registrations. “Prospective students are advised to continue to liaise with the universities of their choices through their communication channels,” the statement read. Nzimande also said although most Technical, Vocational and Training Colleges (TVET) had commenced with their teaching and learning, some colleges were still accepting students in areas where the enrolment targets are not met. “Community colleges opened, on  the 11th January 2023 for inland provinces and opened today, the 18th January 2023 for coastal provinces. “Prospective students are advised to go to their colleges of choice for registration for the academic year 2023.” NOW READ: Class of 2022 achieves St Benedict’s 100% pass rate for 48th consecutive year The department has activated the services of the Central Application Clearing House (CACH) to assist individuals to access university, college and skills development opportunities and the system will open on the 24th January to the 31st March 2023. “As part of the Department of Higher Education and Training  normal process to work with the sector to prepare for the academic year’s registration process, consultation meetings are currently held with various stakeholders including  with the Universities South Africa, (Usaf), the South Africa College Principals Organisation (SACPO), the South African Union of Students (SAUS) and South African  Technical and Vocation Student Association (SATVESA).” Nzimande also reminded students that application results will be communicated to all applicants once NSFAS has received confirmation from the Institution that an academic offer has been made. “This will be communicated all students via SMS, email and through student’s myNSFAS account. For further information on the NSFAS application processes, applicants are advised to visit the NSFAS website at www.nsfas.org.za. “Further details on our state of readiness will be announced by the minister before the end of January during the ministers annual media briefing following the final engagements with all relevant stakeholders within the post school education and training sector.” READ MORE: IEB matric class of 2022 maintains its 98% and above pass rate