Sjava’s latest offering titled Isibuko seems to be off to a good start after topping Twitter trends list and Apple music charts on its day of release.  Ahead of the release of his album, the musician held an intimate listening session at Circa Gallery where a select group of industry insiders, friends and family got to enjoy an exhibition while getting the first taste of his project.  Isibuko is the Isizulu word for “mirror” and during a lengthy chat with his guests on Thursday night, Sjava (real name Jabulani Hadebe) explained that the album exposes a deeply introspective side to him as he hopes to take the listener on a journey of bare and raw emotions. He described the idea for his album as music that one would listen to during their quiet moments alone, whether it be at home, in the car or on trips outside the city.  The 18-track studio album follows his successful EP Umsebenzi released in 2020. “This album obviously is a reflection of my journey over the last few years and speaks to my experiences and growth as a person and as a musician. Musically, it is a continuation of the process that began with the Umsebenzi EP/Deluxe and I hope my supporters enjoy the body of work,” commented Sjava.   It was worth the wait. Half way through the album and ngizizwa ngilaphekile emoyeni ????????????❤️ #Sjava #Isibuko pic.twitter.com/5MVa3rp3Ff— Mam'Yangchaza ???? (@MaZuluOmuhlez) January 27, 2023 In Isibuko, Sjava shares the private thoughts and emotions that have been the soundtrack to his life over the last three years and touches on various aspects of his life as both a man and an artist. He also develops his sound and experiments with slower, deeper lo-fi elements as well as rich, live instrumentation that are said to give the album both body and depth. Speaking further about his inspiration, the musician said the foundations of the album were laid at a two-week album retreat in February 2022, at Antbear Lodge in the beautiful Okhahlamba mountains in northern KZN.  “It was here that Sjava, Ruff, Delayde, Webmoms and Vuyo Manyike conceptualised the essence of the project and recorded the initial music and vocals for the album.” Some of the concepts he touches on include:  – How self-doubt and fear lead to self-sabotage on Amavaka, reminding us that we’re often further in our lives than the tiny voice of doubt in our heads would have us believe. – A haunting prayer and plea to God to remain within his sight and grace on Thixo.  – Family relationships and hardships on songs titled Akabuye and Kube Ngangazi. After running through the whole album, I found my fave song???????????????????????????????????????????? #sjava #Isibuko @Sjava_atm pic.twitter.com/ST2QXWLP5k— Bima (@Bima_Thabo07) January 27, 2023 – Sad love songs – a genre that Sjava is well known for – are also well-represented on songs like Amanxeba, Grounding, Dudlu and Iphisi. – Stronger, more upbeat tracks such as My Life, Isoka, Ungavumi and Ubuhle Bendalo round the album off with positive feel-good messages. #SjavaGuys???? ????????????????????❤️#Isibuko pic.twitter.com/dxf7qsorSp— Deep House Freak (@DeepHouseFrea) January 27, 2023 Over the years, the musician’s die-hard fans have bombarded him with questions about the long wait since his last project, Umqhele in 2018.  “I know it’s been a while, but I trust that the album will be worth the wait. Thank you to everyone who has supported me over the last eight years of my career, and I look forward to continuing this musical journey together in the future,” said Sjava.   YOU MIGHT ALSO LIKE: Sjava adds his voice to land expropriation debate Although he currently enjoys a comfortable career as a musician, Sjava’s break into the entertainment industry actually began on-screen as an actor in several local films and series. In 2015, he got his big break after featuring on Miss Pru’s hit song Ameni and this paved the way for his 2016 debut album Isina Muva. He quickly gained popularity after finding a niche that saw him touch on themes central to the two places credited with moulding him in his formative years; rural KwaZulu-Natal and urban Johannesburg.  I was so happy to hear Saudi on #Isibuko, I didn’t expect that feature but it’s a good one, I can’t remember the last time I heard new music from Saudi.— A Global Media PowerHouse????. (@Ndamase_Siya) January 27, 2023 He coupled this with the decision to jump on an emerging sound which mainly featured elements of Maskandi, Isicathamiya, Mbaqanga, Hip Hop, Trap, RnB and Soul music. By the time he released his sophomore album Umqhele, Sjava had been featured on the Kendrick Lamar-produced and Grammy-nominated Black Panther album and had received a BET Award for Best New International Act.  In the same year, just months before the release of Umqhele, Sjava also released an EP, Umphako, which featured the hit single Abangani featuring African Trap Movement (ATM) members and fellow stablemates Emtee and Saudi.  His love for his fellow ATM members continues on in their involvement in his latest project.  Sjava’s long-term producer and musical partner Ruff and Vuyo Manyike played a part in Isibuko’s production and instruments alongside the likes of as well as Delayde and Webmoms while featured artists on the project include long-time ATM collaborators Emtee and Saudi.  In 2020, Sjava launched 1020 Cartel, a record label he co-owns and hoped would be a platform for him and other artists to develop and grow the urban-Zulu genre of music which he was a part of pioneering back in 2015/2016. His first release under the new label was Umsebenzi. Isikhathi sokuthatha amandla amasha, ukululama okusha kanye nokuzalwa komphefumulo kabusha. Selidumela emansumpeni. ???? #Isibuko — 27/01 pic.twitter.com/QdB7kigM2E— Sjava indlalifa (@Sjava_atm) January 24, 2023 For Isibuko, he called on the talents of 1020 Cartel’s Anzo and Maskandi heavyweights Shwi, Mzukulu, Inkos’yamagcokama and Dumakahle. Sjava has also featured some leading ladies on the project such as Afrotainment stars, the Qwabe Twins and the highly talented singer/songwriter Mzulu Phaqa. Listen to Isibuko here.  READ NEXT: Sjava denies having three wives, says they are merely supporters