Kaizer Chiefs will have to be really brave when they go onto the field at FNB Stadium to meet Mamelodi Sundowns on Saturday evening. The game is set for an 8pm kickoff. ALSO READ: Mnisi leaves Royal AM, refuses to divulge details of failed relationship This is because they come up against a side who have proved to be unstoppable and enjoy hammering other big teams, especially in their own backyard.  And also, Chiefs are coming off a bad loss to AmaZulu FC last weekend, which would have crippled the confidence a little.  This is why a leader like Itumeleng Khune is needed in such situations. The veteran Amakhosi keeper has raised his hand to take the flak from supporters and shield his younger teammates.  “To be quite fair, football is a team sport,” said Khune this week. “When the team is not doing well, certain individuals will be labelled and given names.  “I think that’s what brings the best out of me as an individual… because as a leader, you can’t run away from the situation we are facing,” explained Khune.  “You have to face it head-on, and other players look up to you as their role model. They look up to you as a senior member of the team.  “And if I shy away from the situation and criticism, that means I’m not willing to grow. I’m willing to grow as a leader and as a footballer.  “And I am willing to learn as a human being. There’s a lot of youngsters in the team, they can learn a lot from me.” He said the only way he can positively influence the team is by example, by quickly forgetting the previous result and forging forward.  “In situations like this, I have to rise, and I have to give better performances than the performance I gave in our previous game.   “We will be given names, but one game doesn’t define an individual. I mean I’ve played for over two decades. I’ve been given names before but how I bounce back is more important.”  Chiefs will meanwhile welcome back two of their experienced players in Keagan Dolly and Sifiso Hlanti for the Sundowns game. Hlanti was out through suspension last weekend while Dolly was nursing a minor injury but they are both available for Saturday.