Dar es Salaam. The Tanzania National Parks Authority (Tanapa) has commissioned the construction of a new modern golf course at Fort Ikoma in Serengeti District, Mara Region. Conservation Commissioner William Mwakilema said the location of the project worth $3.2 million (Sh7.5 billion) is out of the conservation area and is expected to be completed by June, this year. According to Mwakilema, minimal or no construction is allowed in the conservation area and that Tanapa’s choice of the location of the modern golf course project meets the conservation requirements. He said the golf course, upon the completion of its construction, would be expected to attract about 3,000 golfers annually from various parts of the world and bring income. “The historic and iconic location will now host the beautiful and exciting game aimed at promoting the Serengeti National Park by attracting more visitors who can enjoy the Park’s scenery as well as play golf,” said Mwakilema. For his part Tanapa’s Board of Trustees Chairman, retired General George Waitara, commended the project while saying the modern golf course will attract many tourists in the country hence increasing income. Tanzania Golf Union (TGU) chairman Gilman Kasiga said the foundation stone for the project was laid by the chairman of the Board of Tanapa Trustees, retired General George Waitara, who is also retired Chief of Defence Forces. Kasiga thanked Tanapa for developing the golf course and advised the golf course leadership and Tanapa to also develop a golf course for juniors so that nearby schools and communities can also benefit. “This will anchor well with TGU for juniors’ recruitment into the game and encouraging the participation of women players in the game. He said TGU believes that the establishment of the golf course in the Serengeti will increase more traffic to the National Park hence getting more revenue and offering an opportunity for golfers to enjoy the game in the park’s unique environment. “TGU will get committed to host various international competitions at the Serengeti National Park Golf Course and bring the best of golfers in the Serengeti. “We welcome the development and salute Tanapa’s leadership for the initiative. We believe the new golf course will promote the development of the game in the country as well as increase income in tourism activities,” said Kasiga. He said various hotels including Grumeti, Serena, Glen Melia, lodges without forgetting camps, road and airstrip networks (one located next to the under construction golf course) provide the necessary infrastructure to facilitate golfing guests to have access to the golf course. The location of the golf course near Fort Ikoma has long history. The German army while fighting in World War I in 1905 created the Fort as its strategic defence position. The Germans used the Fort to defend themselves against the rebellious Ikoma people and also used the Fort as a heliograph station cautioning their forces of British incursion in the region. After independence, the Tanzania People’s Defence Force (TPDF) established its first Staff College at Fort Ikoma. The Staff College was then moved to the now popularly known Tanzania Military Academy in Monduli, Arusha Region. After its shift to Monduli, the site was acquired by Tanapa as its centre for operations in the Serengeti National Park. So, it is a place with long history and the creation of the golf course will add value to the historical site. The Serengeti National Park Golf Course construction design includes the on-going planting exercise of more than 3,000 trees of various species including natural ones. Tanapa’s initiative is well commendable and TGU is proud to be part of it.