As the African National Congress (ANC) prepares for the resumption of its 55th national conference and its annual January 8 Statement celebrations, the party will also be hosting a presidential golf day with a massive price tag to play with officials. The ANC will hold its annual January 8 Statement celebrations this Sunday in Mangaung, Free State, to mark its 111th anniversary since its formation in 1912. On Tuesday, ANC secretary-general Fikile Mbalula said it was all systems go for the events. Mabulala said there will be golf day and a gala dinner on Saturday, ahead of its birthday celebrations on Sunday. Addressing the media from Luthuli House in Johannesburg, Mbalula said the events will be used to raise funds for the party. “We don’t have money, we raise money – from people who’ve got money.” ALSO READ: ‘Concerns about ANC January 8 venue misplaced’ – Mangaung Mbalula said people were “questioning” the fundraising activities following reactions on social media about the Presidential Golf Day fundraiser. They charge R350 000,00 for you to play golf with Cyril Ramaphosa. The unemployment grant is R350;00 .I've finally figured that 350 is the president 's favourite figure .  Mr 350 … ◇ #ANC110Limpopo #ANC110 | Ace Magashule ◇ pic.twitter.com/MucRjQKvb8— ???????? DN A Huszle ???????? (@huszle) January 7, 2022 According to a poster by the ANC, the party is charging R350 000 to play in a four-ball with President Cyril Ramaphosa, while to play with a minister or premier will cost R75 000. The gala dinner seat and prices were equally exorbitant with individual chairs starting at R5 000 and going up to R95 000. Tables range from R760 000 to R1.2 million. “There’s no gun on your head. You voluntarily buy a table,” Mbalula said. “Even if it is R2 million [for the presidential gala dinner], that money goes to the ANC to fund its political activities.” Another example of how the ANC blurs party / government lines as it brazenly advertises corruption – because that’s what’s happening here. People pay money to a political party to have direct access to their politicians in powerful government positions. Quid pro quo. pic.twitter.com/UK534deoYP— Barry Bateman (@barrybateman) January 3, 2023 In November, then ANC treasurer-general Paul Mashatile said the cash-strapped party planned to get rid of assets to pay off its debt. Mashatile said the ANC would sell some of its assets, particularly those in other countries, in order for the governing party to fund the payment of R500 million in arrears. ALSO READ: All systems go for ANC conference, January 8 Statement celebrations – Mbalula This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. This is a modal window. This modal can be closed by pressing the Escape key or activating the close button.