In light of the growing concern for privacy, Google has placed users at the centre of its work across every product. This comes after the tech giant launched My Ad Center globally, allowing anyone to see and control how their data is used to show them ads on Search, Discover and YouTube. My Ad Center allows users to choose to see less of the ads they don’t want to see creating a win-win situation for both users and advertisers. Google said user safety is a top priority when it comes to ads and monetised content on its platforms. “In Africa, access to quality information has never been more important, especially since the covid pandemic. As people manage more of their lives online, their concerns over how personal data is gathered, used, and shared have grown.” “In the last five years, search interest in private browsing has increased by +60% in Nigeria, +30% in South Africa, and +110% in Kenya. 2022 was the year Kenya, South Africa and Nigeria searched most for private browsing since 2012,” Google said. Nitin Gajria, Managing Director, Africa at Google, states regulators across the world are demanding a more private internet, and businesses in Africa must acknowledge and respond to this shift in consumer behaviour. “At Google, we are committed to making the ad-supported web a safer and more private place for everyone in Africa. We believe that by giving people control over their data and investing in privacy-safe advertising, we can secure a future for the ad-supported web that benefits everyone,” he said. In addition to these efforts, Google also announced the Privacy Sandbox initiative, an initiative developed in partnership with the advertising industry that aims to create a more private internet. Google said the Privacy Sandbox is designed to reduce tracking across websites and apps, while still allowing for free access to online content and services. “The initiative involves building new technology to protect personal information, providing alternative options for publishers and developers, and establishing new internet privacy standards,” Google said. ALSO READ: Google’s Interview Warmup helps job seekers prepare for interviews