If futurism is your jam, then CES (formerly known as the Consumer Electronics Show) is where your focus should be.  CES 2023 took place in Las Vegas from 5 to 8 January, and featured everything from awe-inspiring gadgets to weird and wonderful technological inventions.  Hundreds of start-ups showcased their wares across several sectors, including health, gaming, education and work, productivity and environmentalism. Here are some highlights: On Wednesday, Sony showcased a brand-new controller for its PlayStation 5. The strange-looking controller can also be paired with its existing DualSense, so no need to stress.  Explaining the benefits of the Leonardo, Sony vice president Hideaki Nishino said the controller was “built to address common challenges” faced by players with limited motor control.  This includes difficulty holding a controller for long periods, accurately pressing small clusters of buttons or triggers, or positioning thumbs and fingers optimally on a standard controller. Razer is one of the multiple companies – including Dell and Acer – showing of laptops sporting rich screens and powerful computer chips. ROG (Republic of Gamers) showedcased the following: Strix SCAR 16 and 18, ROG Strix G16 and G18; ROG Zephyrus G14, G16, and M16; ROG Flow Z13, X13, and X16 One of our favourite devices showcased at CES 2022 was the ASUS Zenbook 14x OLED, which we reviewed later in the year.  The Lenovo Yoga Book 9i was described as the ‘best computing innovation’ by Tech Radar – a device with not one but two OLED screens which combine with a separate keyboard. Other products showcased at CES 2023 include a stunning lineup from Lenovo featuring the ThinkPad X1, the IdeaPad 5 series, Lenovo Tab M9, and IdeaCentre Mini. ALSO READ: ROG 6 review: A powerful gaming phone ASUS unveiled its 31.5-inch 4K HDR ProArt Display OLED (PA32DCM), with ProArt Color Center and Centralised Calibration Tool. The professional-grade monitor can be mounted on a partition to create the ideal spacious workstation. LG Electronics (LG) also unveiled its 2023 TV lineup which consists of the Z3, G3 and C3 OLED Evo Series TVs – promising unprecedented form factors, higher brightness and improved colour accuracy. The TVs are equipped with a redesigned user interface (UI,) which offers a wealth of personalisation options and more convenience than ever. ALSO READ: LG showcases new 2023 OLED TVs