Mamelodi Sundowns have not yet secured the DStv Premiership, but if they are to continue in the fine form they are in, they are going to be done and dusted with a sixth straight title in the not-so-distant future.  ALSO READ: Mokwena demands more from Sundowns star Downs’ bird’s eye view at the summit of the log sees them sitting comfortably with a gap of 14 points  to second placed Richards Bay, who have collected 29 points so far. Masandawana head coach Rulani Mokwena, however, continues to take a rather modest approach to title talk, suggesting that it would be disrespectful to declare that the league  is wrapped up, even though all indicators are pointing towards Chloorkop. “SuperSport beat us in the first round, there is Sekhukhune who drew 1-1 with us. We have TS Galaxy who beat us 1-0 and in between there are two big rivals in that space, Kaizer Chiefs and Orlando Pirates. What right do we have to think that this thing is done? The mentality is to focus on the next one,” said Mokwena. The Downs mentor, who liken praises to one being fed honey with a knife, suggests that as much as being showered with compliments on an 11-game winning streak, it may be damaging in some cases. “Every week people are praising us saying we are playing well, we have opened up a huge gap, we are playing PlayStation football,” said Mokwena.  ALSO READ: Mabena still adjusting to life at Pirates “But I say we have to improve and we have to get better. People will say ‘Cassius Mailula is scoring, play him more’, but I say hang on a little bit, the boy still has a lot to learn. the press that he did against SuperSport United, you would not see him doing that a few more ago.”  He added after narrowly edging SuperSport United 1-0 in the Tshwane derby on Monday night: “Big clubs don’t just get satisfied with winning, they have a way of winning and they have an identity. I did not bring that identity here but I have been given the responsibility to carry it and maybe improve it if I have the capacity. The shoe-shine-and-piano is what makes Sundowns.”