Internet access is no longer a luxury, but has rather become a basic necessity for the average individual on the African continent for economic and human development.  Whether it be to secure a job, funding or various platforms of communication, a strong internet connection and a device from which to access this what is needed.  ALSO READ: SA digitally incompetent The world has also upped its reliance on digitised engagements, becoming more of a digitally connected community in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic.   Despite this, however, approximately only one in three people from developing countries have access to the internet according to the World Bank. The Management College of Southern Africa (Mancosa) School of Information and Digital Technology says the country seems to be on track with its efforts to increase its connectivity among its people. “Recognising the urgent need to bridge the digital divide in South Africa, government has set ambitious targets for achieving widescale internet access for all South Africans in the coming years.  READ MORE: Side-hustlers on the rise in SA middle class “However, at the current rate of progress, it seems that the efforts of the public sector alone will not be successful in bridging the digital divide,” says Paresh Soni, Director of the Mancosa’s School of Innovation and Digital Technology (SIDT). Soni reckons that the private sector needs to join this cause. “Not only will this benefit South Africans, but it will increase entrepreneurship in a country that would diversify the economy,” he says.    “For entrepreneurs who operate in the formal economy, digitalisation serves as both a threat and an opportunity. We must remember that technology to digitise is not cheap. “Most of our technology is imported and subject to the strength of our currency. In this respect, digitalisation will serve as a threat to entrepreneurs who do not have the resources to digitise and participate in the digital economy. “For entrepreneurs who are able to access the right technologies to digitise their businesses, the opportunities are certainly plentiful. From lower economies of scale and easier access to broader target markets, to product innovation and greater efficiency, the positive role of digitalisation cannot be ignored,” says Soni. ALSO READ: Microsoft and MTN join hands to drive Africa’s growth Soni believes that meaningful digital transformation will offer South African entrepreneurs the chance to become frontrunners in the global digital economy. For this to happen, he explained that certain digital skills like that of digital marketing need to be taught. He adds that, as an entrepreneur in South Africa, digital skills should not be viewed through the lenses of the past (where only IT Fundis possessed digital skills).  Today, entrepreneurs across most industries and sectors are expected to possess a fair level of digital proficiency in order to reap the benefits of technology for their respective businesses.   Compiled by Devina Haripersad