For years, the Miss Universe pageant has observed the tradition of a national gift auction that requires contestants to bring a national gift along with them that would be auctioned for sale. The proceeds of the auction would then go to charity and though the tradition remains in place, this year, it has taken on a new format.With the finale of the 71st edition of the Miss Universe pageant fast approaching, all the events in the lead-up to the main event are in full swing. South Africa’s own Ndavi Nokeri joined the rest of the pageant’s contestants to partake in some of these events, including the presentation of the national gift.  Instead of bringing a national gift from their country, this year, the more than 80 contestants were required to customise a blank cape, that they received from the Miss Universe organisers, taking inspiration from anything that could be related to their cause or the country that they represent.  The capes – which will be auctioned instead of national gifts – were worn during the Miss Universe swimsuit competition and were revealed earlier during the preliminary round. According to the Miss South Africa Organisation, Nokeri worked on her striking design, which has been titled “Perfectly Imperfect”, with graphic artist Ashlyn Atkinson from iDesign South Africa and Sinead Fletcher who painted the cape which was covered in the “voices” of South African women.  “Throughout the centuries women have been made to feel unworthy based on any physical characteristics that might not have been desirable for the male gaze. With the South Africa cape, and also as part of a broader message of the Miss Universe platform, women are reclaiming the narrative around their bodies and what makes them beautiful,” commented Nokeri and Atkinson. ALSO READ: Miss SA Ndavi Nokeri prepares for Miss Universe “For me, the design represents liberation to be free from other people’s expectations of what I, or any woman should look like, in order to be considered beautiful. Beauty has no definition, it has no skin tone, it has no size and it is definitely not perfect,” added Nokeri.  @Ndavi_Nokeri walking in her Perfectly Imperfect Cape Design.@MissUniverse #MissUniverse #71stMissUniverse #MissUniverseSouthAfrica #NdaviNokeri #NdaviForMissUniverse #PreliminaryShow pic.twitter.com/TfN7lfN8z1— Miss South Africa (@Official_MissSA) January 12, 2023 “I hope that the design emphasises that all women are beautiful in their own uniquely imperfect way. The Miss Universe contestants come from around the world and have different shapes and skin tones. The one thing that truly makes women beautiful is our shared womanhood, our cellulite, our stretch marks, our scars, our curves, our different sized breasts, our different hair and our voices,” concluded Atkinson.  Their sentiments were echoed by CEO of the Miss South Africa Organisation, Stephanie Weil.  “The cape came from the voices of South African women that we spoke to. We hope to inspire a movement of perfectly imperfect women with powerful voices to step into the light,” she said. Nokeri also revealed a dress by Juan William Aria during the preliminary rounds.  The Miss South Africa Organisation explained that the dazzling outfit was inspired by the sands of Limpopo and the Gabaza Village where Nokeri was born and raised.  The Miss Universe finale takes place on Sunday, 14 January, in the US and will be broadcast live on 1 Magic (DStv Channel 103) from 3am on Monday, 15 January. The channel will later air a repeat in a prime time slot. Details of the repeat will be announced in due course.Joining Nadiv’s parents Moses and Betty Nokeri in New Orleans to cheer her on are Stephanie Weil and creative director Werner Wessels.  READ NEXT: Tsonga by birth, African at heart: Miss SA’s national costume explained *Compiled by Kaunda Selisho