South Africa’s most adorable couple, Liesl Laurie-Mthombeni and Musa Mthombeni rang in the New Year in style in the Big Apple. The radio and television presenter gifted her hubby with a trip overseas for New Year’s on Christmas morning. The smitten doctor took to Instagram on Thursday to share his amazing gift from his wife with his followers. ALSO READ: Our 5 favourite moments from the Royal children in 2022 “My enemies want to vomit right now! It’s ok guys. Your vomiting episode is brought to you by my gorgeous wife, Liesl Laurie-MthombeniOn Xmas morning, we give each other gifts and boy was I gifted this year! Baby girl booked me (and my new girl with silver hair) a trip overseas over New year’s!Words can’t express how lucky I am to have such a beautiful soulmate. We deserve each other. Ra DESERVE’ana!The Best Wife/Wife of the year Award at #BigDaddysGamesNight was awarded to Liesl Laurie-Mthombeni and she’s the gift that keeps on giving,” he captioned the post which was accompanied by photos of their passports and Liesl holding her “wife of the year” certificates. The former Miss South Africa has her followers envious of the content she is serving on Instagram. On 30 December, Liesl shared some snaps of her and Musa exploring the busy streets of New York. “NYC Day 1. Can you see this content?! I trained my husband so so well,” read the caption that accompanied the photos of the couple dressed in matching long, black puffer coats. After conquering the streets of ‘the city that never sleeps’, the lovebirds headed out for date night to a Pan-Asian eatery, called TAO Downtown Restaurant in New York. Liesl and Musa stepped things up for their New Year’s celebrations, watching the ball drop in Time Square. Sharing a picture of them on the rooftop, of what looks like their hotel, wearing matching jeans and black beanies, the happy couple welcomed in the New Year. “Saw the ball drop (well, not completely- it was making its way so that still counts) in Time Square before the boss of the house decided “home” would be a better option for the countdown-blame old age and sore knees.Incredible night and what a way to kick start the year. The parents are tired now. They need to rest their tired old bones and get ready for tomorrow’s adventures,” Liesl captioned the photo and a video of them at Times Square. NOW READ: Is Kanye West missing? Ex-business manager can’t find rapper to serve him lawsuit