The South African Hajj and Umrah Council (Sahuc) has announced that it will be releasing its first Hajj accreditation list on Wednesday, 18 January 2023. This comes after the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia granted South Africa a quota of 2 500 pilgrims that will be allowed to perform hajj in 2023 or the Islamic year 1444. South Africa have hoped for a larger quota considering the extensive waiting list for those wanting to perform the pilgrimage. Sahuc secretary general, Hassan Choonara, said they have requested for the number of pilgrims to be increased. “The delegation from Sahuc as well as Dirco has made a request for the quota to be increased. The Ministry of Hajj in Saudi Arabia has indicated that they would consider an increase. We are, therefore, pleased to announce that the first accreditation list will be released on 18 of January 2023, after Esha.” ALSO READ: Hajj 2023: 2 500 South African pilgrims allowed to perform – Saudi Arabia announces “Accreditation acceptance or deferral of accreditation must be done by 1 February 2023, at 6.30pm or face cancellation of accreditation,” Choonara said. Sahuc releases a number of accreditation lists stemming from pilgrims who have cancelled and various other reasons including financial constraints. Choonara said the selection of an accredited Hajj travel operator must be done by 11 February 2023, at 6.30pm or face cancellation of accreditation. “Accreditation cancelled by Sahuc because of not making the above deadlines will attract a penalty of 30 points.” Last week, Saudi Hajj and Umrah Minister Tawfiq bin Fawzan al-Rabiah announced the lifting of the quota restrictions while speaking at a conference about the hajj. “I bring you two bits of good news in this meeting. The first: The return of the numbers of pilgrims to what they were before the pandemic without any age restrictions,” Al-Rabiah said. Al-Rabiah also stressed the keenness of the Ministry of Hajj and Umrah to improve and develop all services and solutions provided to pilgrims. ALSO READ: Saudi Arabian cleric praises warmth of South Africans