Here’s your morning news update: An easy-to-read selection of our top stories. Stay up to date with The Citizen – More News, Your Way The African National Congress (ANC) Free State conference taking place at the Imvelo Safari Lodge has been delayed amid disputes over delegation lists. The disputes escalated on Friday afternoon, resulting in clashes between ANC members and police, who allegedly fired rubber bullets to and sprayed tear gas in the area. Spokesperson of the ANC in the Mangaung Fannie Ledimo told Newzroom Afrika that although they did not know where the instruction for police to fire rubber bullets came from, things escalated after Zizi Kodwa’s arrival. READ MORE: WATCH: ANC Free State conference delayed after delegates’ grievances result in chaos, clashes with cops The R255 million Free State asbestos corruption case involving former African National Congress (ANC) secretary-general, Ace Magashule, has been delayed once again. Magashule and his co-accused, 11 individuals and four companies, on Friday appeared briefly in the Bloemfontein High Court for pre-trial proceedings, but the matter was postponed to 5 May 2023. The protracted case has been on the pre-trial roll for more than two years. READ MORE: Magashule cries foul over yet another Free State asbestos corruption case delay “Facebook Rapist” Thabo Bester’s death at Mangaung Correctional Centre in May last year was murder, not suicide, a leaked report confirms. Last year GroundUp reported on the mysterious circumstances surrounding the alleged death of convicted rapist and murderer Thabo Bester. On 3 May 2022, the Department of Correctional Services announced that Bester had been found dead in his cell at the private prison near Bloemfontein. A mattress had been set alight in the cell in which Bester had been isolated. A body was beneath the mattress, burned beyond recognition. READ MORE: Murder at Mangaung prison: Leaked report shows ‘Facebook rapist’ was dead before fire in cell President Cyril Ramaphosa has congratulated the matric class of 2022 achieving an 80.1% pass rate in the National Senior Certificate (NSC) examinations. The NSC overall pass rate stood at 80.1%, which was an improvement of 3.7% from the pass rate achieved by the class of 2021, Basic Education Minister Angie Motshekga announced on Thursday evening. Class of 2022: Get your matric results here The Free State was the leading province again this year with a pass rate of 88.5%, an increase of 2.8% from 2021. READ MORE: Ramaphosa congratulates matric class of 2022 for their outstanding performance Model Chrissy Teigen married to award-winning musician John Legend has welcomed their new baby. The married couple, who already have two children together, have been open about their struggles to get pregnant again after doing a medical abortion prior.  In February 2022, Teigen revealed they were undergoing fertility treatments in an effort to possibly have another child. Arsenal face a stern test of their Premier League title credentials against Manchester United this weekend as Liverpool and Chelsea meet in a clash of two clubs desperate to escape mid-table obscurity. At the bottom, Frank Lampard takes Everton to face David Moyes’ West Ham, with both managers under intense pressure as the relegation trap door looms. AFP Sport takes a look at some of the key talking points ahead of the action. READ MORE: Arsenal face Man Utd test as struggling Liverpool host Chelsea