The social media high from Thando Thabethe’s Dubai trip where she got to see Beyoncé perform live was short-lived after a picture of her posing next to disgraced RnB star Trey Songz went viral.  Thando and other South African celebrities were in Dubai for what many are calling the opening of the world’s most luxurious hotel.  The hotel opening was also the event that saw Beyoncé’s headline-making performance, which was also her first concert performance in four years.  According to Daily Mail, the Cuff It singer was paid a reported $35 million for her one-hour show at the launch event for Atlantis The Royal in Dubai. That is the equivalent of $280 000 per minute of her performance.  Thando Thabethe was critcised for having double standards after her very public comments on both MacGyver ‘MacG’ Mukwevho and DJ Fresh.  Podcast and Chill host MacG Mukwevho has had a long and seemingly one-sided beef with the 947 radio host after she criticised him for being transphobic and homophobic on his show. Since her comment, he has never missed an opportunity to say some of the most misogynistic things about her on his podcast.  YOU MIGHT ALSO LIKE: MacG saga sparks conversation on homophobia as celebs choose sides Additionally, she showed public support for the woman who accused DJ’s Fresh and Euphonik of rape before going on to replace DJ Fresh as the 94.7 drive-time host after he was let go from the station.  It is for these reasons that Twitter users are confused as to why theHow To Ruin Christmas star would not only take a picture with Trey Songz but even go as far as posting it. Especially since she has claimed to be an anti-GBV activist in the past.  Same ghel that was screaming about the podcast dude— Baby Mama ka Thor (@Ray_of_Lerato) January 23, 2023 Isn’t he supposed to be in jail ????— sherlock_homie (@MpetaTumelo) January 23, 2023 ALSO READ: SA celebs in Dubai for the Beyoncé concert Isn't she afraid of this guy?— Jessie_come@home (@jessiecome1) January 22, 2023 Lmao I was about to say this ???? sis must be extra careful— IG: @nicky_posh (@miss_nicky_posh) January 23, 2023 Trey Songz was accused of rape multiple times by different women @Thando_Thabethe “ I wish I could unsee this picture. Disgusted!” https://t.co/uLBNbEkfjS— Views from Kukuterian (@Pm_kukuterian2) January 24, 2023 In recent years, the troubled musician has been accused of both rape and assault by numerous women.  According to a report by The St. Louis American, last November, a New York woman claimed Songz struck her a month earlier while they were at a bowling alley.  “The woman filed a police report claiming he continuously punched her in the face. She also said the singer pulled her by her hair and was transported to a hospital for minor visible injuries. A man who refused medical treatment also alleges Songz hit him in the eye.” Their claims come after several women have accused Songz of rape and sexually-motivated aggressive behaviour.  In April 2022, a woman asked for a $5 million settlement, alleging Songz deliberately removed her bathing suit top. In January, Dylan Gonzalez, an ex-college basketball player accused him of raping her years ago. READ NEXT: ‘Just post nudes and shut up’ – MacG lashes out at Thando Thabethe