After the scary attempted burglary at Shauwn “MamMkhize” and Sbu Mpisane’s mansion in La Lucia over the weekend, the businessman has spoken out.  Security guards foiled an attempted burglary of Mkhize and Mpisane’s triple-storey home, where the divorced couple live in separate wings.  Three burglars were involved, one was injured, and the two others got away without any possessions. It was reported that Mpisane’s side of the house was targeted.  The police believe it was an attempted assassination of the businessman.  Speaking to News24 police spokesperson Colonel Robert Netshiunda said the robbers entered Mpisane’s side of the house moments before he returned home.  Nesthiunda says one of the suspects allegedly fired gunshots with Mpisane., a former police officer, retaliating and firing his own shots.  The businessman told the publication that he is “not okay” and alleged this isn’t the first time this has happened.  ALSO READ: Security guards foil burglary at Shauwn Mkhize’s La Lucia mansion He said this is the “fourth time” the same suspects have entered his home without his permission. “In the second attempt… I managed to catch one of the suspects hiding under my bed. I caught him and held him until police arrived,” he said to News24.  The police have corroborated Mpisane’s story, saying the main suspect was arrested and a case was opened in December.  Mpisane says the main suspect has a housekey and he doesn’t know how they obtained it as there was no forced entry.  Adding the main suspect has been in his house a couple of times and tried to take his life.   He detailed how the one suspect has been trying to assassinate him and when this incident occurred last week, he noticed a few abnormalities.   “On Saturday when I arrived home, I smelt cigarettes and alcohol in the place and I knew there were people inside. When I slowly moved to the lounge area I saw the intruders had been sitting there drinking my alcohol and possibly waiting for me to arrive,” he told the publication.   Suspects noticed him and gunshots went off, they tried to escape as Mpisane ran after them.  He said he doesn’t know why they want to kill him and characterised it as an attempted hit, not a break-in. *Compiled by Sandisiwe Mbhele