The Tshwane emergency service is on high alert following the floods in parts of the city on Thursday afternoon, as the province expects more rain on Friday.  Spokesperson Charles Mabaso told SAFM two cars were left trapped in flooding in different parts of the city. Fortunately, the occupants of the vehicles are safe. Tshwane emergency services say they're on high alert following flash floods in Pretoria this afternoon. Two cars have been trapped in flooding in different parts of the capital city.#sabcnews— SAfm news (@SAfmnews) January 5, 2023 Motorists have been warned to avoid the entrance to Pretoria North via the Rachel De Beer Street from the CBD as the road is flooded. Heavy rain warning:2023-01-05Avoid entrance into Pretoria North via Rachel De Beer Street from the CBD.Services on scene. pic.twitter.com/hikaHIqBwS— DAWard2 (@ward2_da) January 5, 2023 This as more disruptive rain is expected in Gauteng early on Friday morning. Meanwhile, the South African Weather Service (SAWS) has issued an orange level 9 warning for disruptive rainfall in the north-eastern parts of KwaZulu-Natal and the eastern parts of Mpumalanga on Friday.  Residents in these areas should expect flooding of roads, damage to property, widespread mudslides, rockfalls and soil erosion, warned the weather service.  ALSO READ: Level 9 warning: Disruptive rain expected in parts of SA on Friday A yellow level 4 warning for disruptive rain has also been issued over the south western parts of KwaZulu-Natal. Residents of the Alfred Nzo, OR Tambo DMs, Elundini, Sakhisizwe, Engcobo, Intsika Yethu, Mbhashe and Mnquma Local Municpalities of the Eastern Cape should also expect heavy rain on Friday.  ALSO READ: KZN’s weather warning: Concerns about Cogta’s Disaster Management Centre capacity issues The Eastern Cape department of transport has called on motorists in these areas to be cautious when driving along the roads between Ngcobo and Mthatha, Ngcobo to Dutywa, and Ngcobo to Elliot.  “Our roads are wet, and driving conditions are extremely dangerous. Please be on the lookout for fallen rocks and water on the roadway. Please approach with caution,” urged the department on Thursday.