Dar es Salaam. Opposition parties and other stakeholders are eagerly awaiting reforms that would create an “independent” electoral body and restart the defunct constitutional review process, with other stakeholders arguing that the planned framework should be made public to allow for greater engagement. Speaking at an event to commend the country’s reformist President, Samia Suluhu Hassan, after lifting a six-year ban on political rallies, Prof Ibrahim Lipumba, the national chairman of Civic United Front (Cuf), said the procedure should start as soon as possible. “We applaud the president for her willingness to meet with the heads of every political party that is officially recognised in the nation; this is the first time since 1992 that a head of state has done so,” Prof Lipumba said. He added: “It is imperative that these reforms be expedited before the upcoming municipal and general elections in 2024 and 2025, respectively, as they will likely result in the creation of an independent electoral body capable of overseeing free and fair elections.” According to Prof Lipumba, there cannot be any delays between the reforms and the upcoming elections since, in addition to lifting the ban on political gatherings, a new constitution and the country’s electrical system are essential. When asked where to begin with the constitutional reform process, the five-time presidential candidate for Cuf stated: “The Warioba draft was for the union; we never had one for Tanganyika.” He added: “However, we have no revisions to the Zanzibar constitution that would reflect the suggested model for the union government, even when it comes to how to finance the union administration, which is a contentious issue.” On the other hand, the Tanzania Constitution Forum (Jukata) applauded President Hassan’s willingness to revive stalled constitution reforms process saying they are ready to offer technical assistance if needed. “President Hassan has lifted a ban on political rallies in the country, promising legal reforms as well as her willingness to restart the process for a new constitution, this indicates that the President is restoring the country to its democratic principles which encourage national unity,” reads the statement. Furthermore, Jukata was of the view that harmony, civilisation and national unity are the fruits of a political-will-based reconciliation among stakeholders. Therefore, the statement signed by Bob Wangwe, the forum’s managing director, emphasised the importance of a known timetable that would allow a broader participation of the people and other stakeholders in the constitution making. For his part, Mr Juma Ali Khatib, the chairman of the council of political parties in the country, said President Hassan has united political parties as they now stand as one when it comes to issues of national interests. “We were divided even when it came to matters of national importance, so we are relieved to see our colleague (Chadema) come together as one. We are aware that there are conservatives in the ruling CCM who are upset, but we support the president,” he said. On Tuesday, President Hassan met with leaders from 19 registered political parties and ruled out on issues of national interest, which include her decision to lift a six-year ban on political rallies and reforming several laws. The said legislation is related to the office of political party registrar, the national electoral commission and reviving the constitutional reform process. Regarding the new constitution, President Hassan said she had blessings from her part to revive the process that had been stalled for about eight years so as to write a constitution that encompasses the current needs of the country. The President believes that the suggested Warioba draft, which some prefer the process to begin with, but that things have changed since the draft was produced roughly eight years ago and that it will need to be scrutinised in order to achieve a better constitution that meets today’s needs. As a result, President Hassan committed to form a special committee comprising people from all walks of life that would be given terms of reference to work on, with the goal of guiding the country through the process of drafting a ‘new’ constitution.