This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. This is a modal window. This modal can be closed by pressing the Escape key or activating the close button. What’s the fastest way to become a vegan? The answer could be watching this video of pulsating meat that left a lot of people opting to change their diet and become vegans. Because the meat, was doing a sirloin shake. According to Scientific American, this beef zombification occurs when the nerve endings in freshly cut meat are activated by sodium ions, which causes the muscles to contract. Adding salt to freshly cut muscle causes it to spasm. Health experts from universities confirm that extra sodium (the salt) sends ions to the cell that triggers it to open up, creating a cascade of chemical activities that causes the cell to fire. This leads to the muscle twitching. ALSO READ: Another new meat alternative? What is plant-based lamb? This is what people had to say about the meat spasm on social media: One Twitter user posted: Honestly – can watch a lot of vegetarian/vegan horror videos of factory farming etc. BUT… this actually affects my mind more… might be doing meatless for a few days now. honestly – can watch a lot of vegetarian/vegan horror videos of factory farming etc. BUT…this actually affects my mind more…might be doing meatless for a few days now.— Detro – High Country Cultivars – DC Field Office (@DetroJones) January 9, 2023 Others commented that they were going vegan or “ain’t eating meat again”. Whereas some added GIFs of people shuddering or throwing up.  The fact is, many people are horrified when they are reminded that the product on their plate comes from an animal.  Last year, a stop-motion video of a seemingly live raw chicken breast slithering around a cutting board went viral on TikTok.  Although the meat wasn’t actually moving by itself, social media users were disturbed. Responses to the video range from “this was traumatising” and “I don’t like the chicken slug” to “the way the chicken sacrificed itself halfway through” and “this is why I don’t eat meat”. Many comments seem to react to the frightening lifelike quality of the chicken breast – something many people would rather not contemplate when they’re cooking or eating meat. Complied by: Asanda Mbayimbayi