New Proteas white-ball coach Rob Walter said this week that he has had no discussions with Faf du Plessis or Cricket South Africa over the return of the former captain to the national team. While Walter said he is willing to consider the 38-year-old for Proteas selection, the matter may well be out of his hands due to contractual issues. Du Plessis has not played an ODI since the 2019 World Cup and retired from Test cricket in February 2021, saying he wanted to focus on the T20 format. But he has not played for South Africa in any format since his Test retirement, the stumbling block believed to be which T20 series he is obliged to play as part of a contract with CSA. So the big question remains, even in 2023, whether Du Plessis will be willing to play for the Proteas without a contract, or are CSA willing to make some sort of deal with him? Read more: SA cricket boss Nkwe – ‘Proteas coaches Conrad, Walter will bring new energy’ Du Plessis placed himself firmly back in the spotlight this week by slamming the first century in the new SA20 league, leading his Joburg Super Kings franchise back into the top four on the log. “I haven’t had any discussions with Faf or, on the other side, with CSA about him,” Walter told The Citizen this week. “But he is a wonderful cricketer and he has not retired from all international cricket. “So I guess his selection depends on what hunger there is at both ends for him to play for South Africa. If he keeps performing like he is, why would we not consider him? “There may, however, be some sticking points potentially over how him coming back would work. But we can’t bury our head in the sand when it comes to T20 leagues, otherwise we’ll be shooting ourselves in the foot. We’ll have to see if we can navigate our way around these sort of issues,” Walter said. Of course it was shortly after Du Plessis’ retirement from Test cricket that CSA became embroiled in the whole SJN saga, with the appointment of former University of Fort Hare Chancellor, Advocate Dumisa Ntsebeza, as ombudsman, so perhaps the much-respected skipper had other reasons for staying away. There is a much more positive mood in South African cricket now, however, especially with the SA20 proving a tremendous success. “I’ve watched most of the SA20 and it has been awesome to see the full grounds,” Walter said. “You almost feel the energy coming through the TV. “There have been really good games and multiple dynamics at play – different conditions at the various grounds, different ways of winning and different team make-ups. “What it’s going to do for our domestic players is fantastic, it’s a wonderful advert for our cricket and it will probably only get stronger in terms of the players it attracts. “At the moment I see a bunch of really talented players in a country full of talent,” Walter said. Read more: Conrad and Walter – ‘The patient opener and the enthusiastic keeper’