It seems like Orlando Pirates’ goal scoring problems might be a thing of the past, that is if the team’s strikers take on everything they learn from their new striker coach Scott Chickelday. ALSO READ: Sundowns look for key to unlock stubborn Richards Bay Though Pirates have not officially announced Chickelday as their striker coach, the Englishman took to social media to announce his first day with the Buccaneers, saying he had a warm welcome at the club. “Wow! What a first day with @orlandopirates. Never felt so welcomed at a club! Some great people within this set up and some fantastic players! Really excited to be working within this fantastic club,” wrote Chickelday on his Twitter account. Wow! What a first day with @orlandopirates Never felt so welcomed at a club! Some great people within this set up and some fantastic players! Really excited to be working within this fantastic club ????‍☠️ ???????? pic.twitter.com/oH9PTipqmM— Scott Chickelday (@scott_c9) January 5, 2023 With the acquisition of Chickelday, the Buccaneers seem determined to fix their goalscoring problems, which has been an issue for the club for a few seasons now – head coach Jose Riveiro has brought the subject up many times in his post-match interviews, with the club managing to play some beautiful football, but failing ail to convert chances. Pirates have seeked to get the best strikers they can get, and the recently acquired the services of veteran Ndumiso Mabena, who joins the likes of Kermit Erasmus, Eva Nga, Evidence Makgopa, Zakhele Lepasa, Kwame Peprah and Terrence Dzvukamanja as the men entrusted to get goals for the club. Most probably Chickelday’s efforts with the strikers will work wonders for the Sea Robbers, with the striker coach having worked with the likes of Ollie Watkins of Aston Villa and Liverpool FC’s Harvey Elliot. The new Pirates coach also has a UEFA license and he has formerly worked with the Tottenham Hotspur and Queens Park Rangers academy, spending 12 years in the academy system. Having a striker coach is not really a new thing in football, with former Bafana Bafana striker Benni McCarthy having been roped in by Eric ten Hag to help out with the forwards at Manchester United.