Entries are streaming in for the 2023 Passion for Speed extravaganza, that will officially open this year’s South African circuit racing season at the Zwartkops Raceway on the weekend of 27 and 28 January. The event, long a huge favourite with local motorsport, is expected to attract more than 300 competitors in a wide variety of racing disciplines. As is tradition historic car racing will head up the show, with the event’s top billing belonging to the traditional 45-minute Castrol Pre-1968 Le Mans Sports and GT TT race. Entries will include AC Cobras, Ford GT40s, Lola T70s, Porsche 911 variants, Ginettas and Shelby Daytona Coupes. ALSO READ: Zwartkops Passion for Speed 2022 promises plenty of action Two of the Ford GT40 entries will be driven by Swedish visitors. They will be the first overseas competitors at Zwartkops for the past three years, due to Covid-19 travel restrictions. The races for Pre-1974 International Sports Prototypes will see cars like Porsche 917s, a McLaren M6C CamAm, Chevrolet Camaros, Ford Mustangs and Chevrons from different vintages. Other highlights will be provided by the Marlboro Crane Hire Legend Saloon Cars, with Ford Galaxies, a Chevrolet Nova, Ford Fairlanes, Camaros, Mercurys, a Ford Thunderbolt, Chevrolet Impalas, Plymouths, and Studebakers on the grid. Equally diverse will be the Marlboro Crane Hire Little Giants races, with Ford Cortinas, Volvos, Alfa Romeos, GSM Darts, a Protea, MGAs, a Triumph Spitfire, Mini Coopers, Ford Anglias, a Ford Corsair and a Austin-Healy Frogeye Sprite in action. Other historic car events will include Ben Morgenrood Historic Pursuit handicap races, Midvaal Historics, Alfa Trofeo, and Historic Single Seater car races. The Passion for Speed programme will also cater for contemporary racing classes, topped by the G&H Transport Extreme Supercars, where GT3 Lamborghinis, Porsches, and Ferraris will face off against Aston Martins, Mercedes-AMGs and Audi R8s. That apart, the BMW M Performance Parts Race Series will attend with 45 cars, spread over six classes, to make it the event’s biggest field. Action at Zwartkops will commence on the Friday, with all classes participating in practice and qualifying sessions. All the racing will take place on the Saturday, starting early in the morning. As always, spectators will be welcome to visit the pits on foot at any time, with the circuit’s Mini Moke trains running between the pit gate and the various spectator points throughout the day. Food and drink will be on sale or you may take your own, and you may braai on the grass banks along the back straight. Admission will cost R200 per adult, R120 for students and kids under 12 get in free. You can find out more at www.zwartkops.co.za or enquire at info@zwartkops.co.za. The circuit’s office number is 012 384 2299.