Dar es Salaam. Policy stakeholders strongly debated the grievances of petty traders, including the acquisition of business stalls by the government and council officials as the stalls were developed to benefit businesspeople. Stakeholders expressed dissatisfaction with financial empowerment through the 10 percent of a council’s annual budget allocated for youth, women, and people with disabilities (YWPwDs). Following the looming problems, they suggested transformation of the business undertaken by petty traders, famously known in Swahili as “machinga.” Transformation, according to them, would enable the registration of all Tanzanians operating in the sector, therefore streamlining their operations and the distribution of resources for the benefit of the country’s economy. The stakeholders’ debate took place during a breakfast debate organized by Policy Forum under the theme, “Women in the Informal Economy: What are the Opportunities and Obstacles in Tanzania?” Open Mind Tanzania executive director Dominic Ndunguru (centre) speaks during a recent breakfast debate organized by Policy Forum. From left are petty trader Eliaika Mtui, Temeke Municipal Council trade officer Judith Matage and Policy Forum official Iman Khatib. PHOTO | COURTERSY The debate was initiated after a Dar es Salaam petty trader, Ms Eliaika Mtui, shared her disgusting experience after operating in the sector since the 1990s. “I raised my capital after working as a housemaid in Kilimanjaro Region before relocating to the business capital of Dar es Salaam,” she told participants. “Lack of permanent working stations forced me to frequently shift from one place to another. I started working at Manzese, shifted to Big Brother, and later to Kariakoo, where I’m running my businesses to date,” she added. She said petty traders at the business hub of Kariakoo were facing different challenges, including poor leadership and being denied access to loans from authorities. “Due to poor leadership, traders are subjected to frequent incidents of torture and injustice from auxiliary police officers including confiscation of business properties over baseless reasons just to be released after paying what is referred to as fines,” lamented Ms Mtui. “Frequent relocations have denied appropriate qualifications for access to loans from councils. Insufficient capital has made most traders only able to meet living costs,” she said. However, Open Mind Tanzania’s executive director, advocate Dominic Ndunguru, said a poor business environment, a lack of recognition, and political interference have greatly hindered the sector’s prosperity in the country. He said poor decision-making in the construction of business stalls or markets has been pushing the Machinga to places with inadequate customers. “Failure to recognize petty traders has been denying petty traders the right to easily access loans from financial institutions, therefore adversely prohibiting their growth and prosperity,” he said. “Worse yet, authorities lack statistics on petty traders operating nationwide as well as in cities, towns, and municipalities,” he added. Mr. Ndunguru said political interference has adversely affected measures undertaken by government institutions, including the Tanzania Revenue Authority (TRA). “Last year, TRA resolved to register 8,900 Kariakoo petty traders in order to collect Sh5 billion. However, the decision was dropped due to political interference,” he said. However, Mr Msafiri Mwajuma Mariam said most leaders of petty traders are planted to benefit politicians as well as government and council officials. “It is these government and council leaders who are also accused of acquiring business stalls that were rented to petty traders. Former Ubungo District Commissioner (DC) Humphrey Polepole made a tough decision of providing tenant petty traders after finding that they have been leased by such officers,” he said. “He made that decision after visiting the Big Brothers market in Mabibo. The Ggovernmentand council officials were tasked twithrreturningall collected rent throughout the life of the contract, something that could be emulated,” he suggested. The Youth and Women Development (Yowed) assistant director, Mr Michael Mapunda, said there was a need to keep the records of petty traders in order to properly manage the funds allocated for the latter. “This is because there are claims that the funds are taken to fixed accounts by unscrupulous council officials. Monitoring and evaluation processes should also be increased, especially after disbursement of loans,” he said. Mr Mapunda also said unnecessary crackdown by auxiliary police have been bringing inconveniences to petty traders. “There is a need to formalize the informal sector to recognize and ease the loan disbursement processes by financial institutions. Over reliance on the government on economic empowerment should be minimized,” he said. Advocate Robert Ndomba questioned the reasons for having 60 percent of Tanzanians in the informal sector but contributing less to the national coffers. Ms Nyanjura Kalindo from the Tanzania Society Saviour Organization (TSSO) suggested a review of policies and systems governing the informal sector. HakiElimu monitoring and evaluation officer Irene Kanyankole stressed the need to register petty traders across the country. Temeke Municipal Council trade officer Judith Matage said lessons recorded from Ubungo District in resolving fraudulent issuance of business stalls as well as the deposition of funds into a fixed account that was intended to benefit petty traders have been considered. However, she said in the 2022/23 fiscal year, the government allocated Sh600 million and Sh45 billion for loan provisions and developing business infrastructure for the operation of petty traders. “Sh107 million was also released for the provision of education to petty traders, on top of the 10 percent of budgets allocated for loan provisions,” she said. Furthermore, she said alleged incidents of injustice in the distribution of business stalls had to be reported to authorities for legal and disciplinary measures. She encouraged petty traders to organize themselves in groups and design business ideas for them to access loans disbursed by councils, insisting that nobody who has met requirements would be denied. She said the performance of loans disbursed to the YWPwDs is unsatisfactory due to the presence of ghost members, contrary to government expectations. According to her, just a few beneficiaries have been recorded as performing better, noting that petty traders have been involved in decision-making. “However, once they are represented by poor leaders, it will lead to decisions that will not benefit petty traders,” she said. Regarding using auxiliary police for tax and levies collections, she questioned: “Why the auxiliary police collect the money and if they provide legal receipts?”  