Advertisement by BettingCompaniesAfrica. Over the years, online sports betting in Tanzania has been on an upwards trend, and it’s not likely to slow down any time soon. International betting companies are targeting the country and launching local sports betting sites focusing on Tanzanian preferences. All this is good news for sports bettors in the country because there are plenty of options! To assert their presence in the market, betting companies in Tanzania offer a wide range of popular betting markets, generous bonuses and local mobile deposit options - all this to provide a seamless betting experience for the players of Tanzania. Here are some of the top online sports betting sites in Tanzania in 2023 according to BettingCompaniesAfrica: Here are some of the top online sports betting sites in Tanzania in 2023 according to BettingCompaniesAfrica:  Betting Site Welcome Bonus Gals Sports Betting Tsh 1,000,000 Play Now Betway Tsh 10,000 Play Now PremierBet Generous Welcome Bonus Play Now 888Bet Tsh 500 Free Bet Play Now  It’s all about knowing what to look for in a betting site in Tanzania; chances are, top bookmakers will have everything you want. However, there are plenty of local betting companies in Tanzania to choose from, but only a few might tick all your boxes. Gal Sport Betting Tsh 1,000,000 Bonus Bet Now!  Gals Sports Betting launched in 2020 and has made a name for itself as one of the most popular betting companies online in Tanzania. One of the first things you’ll notice about GSB Tanzania is that the site is optimised for Swahili, the language most people speak. The sportsbook is licensed by the Gaming Board of Tanzania. If you sign up at this Tanzanian betting site, you’ll get a welcome bonus of up to Tsh 1,000,000 to start you off. For those already with a GSB Tanzania account, there’s a 10% Happy Hour Bonus three times a week and a 50x money-back promo that refunds some of the cash on a lost bet. Gals Sports Betting supports local deposit methods like Halotel, Airtel, Tigo and Vodacom. You can also deposit via USSD by dialling the different codes provided or visiting any of their betting shops to top up from there. GSB Tanzania offers a sportsbook with many betting markets, including soccer, basketball and tennis, where you can place pre-game or live bets. If you consider yourself lucky, try the Supa 12 or Supa 15 jackpots, which will reward you with up to Tsh 200,000,000! With your smartphone, you can download the GSB Tanzania mobile app for Android and enjoy betting on the go.  Pros:  Cons:  Betway TZ Tsh 10,000 Bonus Bet Now!  As one of the biggest sports betting sites in Tanzania and worldwide, Betway needs an introduction The platform goes above and beyond to ensure its players get the complete sports betting experience. Betway Tanzania is locally licensed and regulated by the Gaming Board of Tanzania. Betway TZ offers a welcome bonus of up to Tsh 10,000 for new players and generous promotions for regular players. Betway Tanzania runs several promos at any given time, and one of the jackpots has a prize amount of Tsh 5 billion! Depositing is fast and easy with popular local options like Mpesa, TigoPesa and Airtel Money. As for the sports available you can bet on, Betway has something for everyone! The site has plenty of betting markets, including soccer, rugby, Formula 1 and MMA, each with different leagues. You can also place bets on eSports and virtual sports. One of the top highlights of Betway is its mobile app. The app, available for Android, iOS and Huawei, is optimised for all devices and has all the features you would find on the desktop site.  Pros:  Cons:  PremierBet Tanzania Generous Promotions Bet Now!  If you’re looking for a mobile-friendly betting site in Tanzania that doesn’t seem crowded, Premierbet is your best bet. PremierBet is licensed by the Gaming Board of Tanzania and has a solid reputation as a safe and secure site.  PremierBet offers a generous welcome bonus with favourable terms and conditions. Regular promotions for players range from free bets to cash bonuses, and Premierbet Tanzania tops it all up with a couple of jackpots with life-changing amounts.  You can deposit funds using TigoPesa, Mpesa, Airtel Money, Selcom Paypoint and bank cards.  PremierBet gives bettors several football leagues to bet on – international and local. You can switch from the Tanzania Premier League to the UEFA Champions League to not miss out on anything. Besides soccer, players can bet on many other markets, including baseball, boxing, basketball and tennis.  With all the excitement Premierbet Tanzania offers, you’ll be pleased to know they have a mobile app you can download. However, the app is only available for Android, but if you have an iOS device, its mobile site is an excellent platform.  Pros:   Cons:  888bet TZ Tsh 500 Free Bet Bet Now!  The 888bet brand has been around for over two decades and has finally launched its brand Tanzania. After receiving a licence from the Gaming Board of Tanzania, the site became available to Tanzanian players and has had a positive reputation.  888bet Tanzania offers a free bet of up to Tsh 500 as a welcome bonus. The site is also packed with other creative promos that will spice up your betting experience and reward you with free bets and cash bonuses.  Players can deposit money using Airtel, Vodacom, Tigo, Zantel and Halotel. These are popular local methods that you’ve most probably used before. Once your account is topped up, feel free to try out the various betting markets 888bet Tanzania offers, from football and basketball to cricket.  Pros:  Cons:   