Surreal sci-fi “Everything Everywhere All At Once” topped the Oscar nominations Tuesday with 11, as Hollywood formally kicked off the race to the all-important Academy Awards. It was followed by the German anti-war movie “All Quiet on the Western Front” and the Irish black comedy “The Banshees of Inisherin,” which each received nine nominations from the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences. As expected, Academy voters also rewarded blockbusters such as Tom Cruise’s “Top Gun: Maverick” and “Avatar: The Way of Water” for helping to bring audiences back to movie theatres after the pandemic. Both were nominated for best picture, Tinseltown’s most coveted prize, although another crowd-pleaser Black Panther: Wakanda Forever” — missed out. The remaining best picture slots went to the rock-and-roll biopic “Elvis,” Steven Spielberg’s quasi-memoir “The Fabelmans,” Cate Blanchett’s latest tour-de-force “Tar,” Cannes festival winner “Triangle of Sadness” and literary adaptation “Women Talking.” Absurdist indie film “Everything Everywhere All At Once” portrays a Chinese-American immigrant family undergoing a tax audit, who are quickly drawn into an inter-dimensional battle to save the multiverse from a powerful villain.  It became a huge word-of-mouth hit and has grossed over $100 million worldwide. This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. This is a modal window. This modal can be closed by pressing the Escape key or activating the close button. The film earned four acting nominations for its cast, including best supporting actor for Ke Huy Quan — who appeared as a child in “Indiana Jones and The Temple of Doom” almost four decades ago — and best lead actress for Michelle Yeoh. Yeoh becomes just the second Asian woman ever nominated for lead actress in 95 years of Oscars history and will compete with double Oscar-winner Blanchett for the prize. But there was controversy elsewhere in the lead actress category, as no Black women were nominated, despite Viola Davis (“The Woman King”) and Danielle Deadwyler (“Till”) having been seen as frontrunners. Instead, the remaining slots went to Ana de Armas (“Blonde”), Michelle Williams (“The Fabelmans”) and Andrea Riseborough for the tiny indie film “To Leslie,” which mounted an unusual, late celebrity-backed campaign for its star. In the other individual categories, Brendan Fraser (“The Whale”), Colin Farrell (“The Banshees of Inisherin”) and Austin Butler (“Elvis”) are clear favourites for best actor. The remaining nominations went to Paul Mescal in “Aftersun” and Bill Nighy in “Living.” In the best supporting actress category, Angela Bassett became the first star in a Marvel superhero movie to ever earn an Oscar acting nomination with “Black Panther: Wakanda Forever.” Spielberg made the best director shortlist, but no women were nominated in the category, sparking quick social media backlash. This year they got behind “All Quiet on the Western Front,” which is distributed by Netflix.  The World War I drama “All Quiet on the Western Front” has built major momentum, scooping a massive 14 nods last week for Britain’s BAFTAs. Actors Riz Ahmed (“Sound of Metal”) and Allison Williams (“Girls”) unveiled the Oscar nominations early on Tuesday morning from Los Angeles. Television ratings for award shows including the Oscars have trended downwards, as Academy voters in recent years have veered toward honouring lesser-known indie hits like “Nomadland” and “CODA.” Many in the industry were hoping for a healthy spread of nominations among 2022’s crowd-pleasing sequels, which were sorely needed as giants such as Cineworld, the world’s second-biggest cinema chain, filed for bankruptcy protection. James Cameron’s sci-fi epic “Avatar: The Way of Water,” which sailed past the $2 billion mark globally last weekend, earned four nominations including best picture, production design, sound and visual effects. “Top Gun: Maverick,” Cruise’s long-awaited sequel to his huge 1986 hit which came out in May during highly uncertain times for movie theatres and earned around $1.5 billion, received six — best picture, editing, song, sound, visual effects and adapted screenplay. “That’s the one that feels like it could actually win best picture,” said Davis, before the announcement. “What better story the day after the Oscars air, than that the movie that saved movies was named the best movie? That’s a good story to tell.”