Barely a month after American rapper Kanye West disappeared off the grid, he was spotted wearing a wedding band, lunching with a Yeezy employee. In December 2022, wild rumours swirled around, that the rapper was missing as his ex-business manager, Thomas St. John, were unable to locate him or his lawyers to serve him with a $4.5 million lawsuit over alleged unpaid fees. ALSO SEE: Is Kanye West missing? Ex-business manager can’t find rapper to serve him lawsuit According to a report by TMZ, the All Day hitmaker – who split from media personality and socialite, Kim Kardashian in February 2021 after seven years of marriage – recently exchanged vows with Bianca Censori in a private ceremony, though it is not believed the union is legally binding as they haven’t filed a marriage certificate. This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. This is a modal window. This modal can be closed by pressing the Escape key or activating the close button. Kanye was first pictured with Bianca – who has worked as an architectural designer at his company Yeezy for several years – at the Waldorf Astoria in Beverly Hills earlier this week, and he was wearing a wedding ring. Sources told TMZ that the jewellery signifies the 45-year-old star’s commitment to Bianca. Meanwhile, Kim recently admitted she is worried that people will be “scared” to date her because Kanye – the father of her children, North (9), Saint (7), Chicago (4) and Psalm (3) isn’t the “easiest” person to deal with. “There is a part of me that is like ‘Oh my God, is everyone gonna be scared because I don’t have the easiest ex? “I don’t think that it is fair for me to ever put someone in a situation or bring a new person in who could be super innocent. “Then there’s a side of me that’s like, ‘Why would I ever have to live that way?” the Keeping up with the Kardashians star was quoted as saying. ALSO SEE: Shakira sets social media alight with presumed Pique diss track Kim and Kanye’s divorce was finalised in November 2022 when Ye was ordered to send Kim $200 000 (R3.3 million) per month in spousal support covering 50 percent of the kids’ educational expenses and contribute 50 percent of their security expenses.