Dar es Salaam. The British High Commissioner to Tanzania yesterday explained that despite Africa having many opportunities in various fields, journalists have been focusing on reporting issues of extreme poverty, hunger and conflict. Mr David Concar called on African journalists to change their modus operandi, noting that good journalism at the moment in and about Africa was demanding because it often involves writing some of the most challenging stories of the time. He was speaking in Dar es Salaam as the BBC News launched the 2023 Komla Dumor award in celebration of journalistic talent in Africa. In the event, Zambian TV and radio presenter Dingindaba Buyoya ,25, was awarded winner of the Komla award 2022 and who went on to host a discussion for the BBC World Service programme Focus on Africa, on the impact of climate change in Kenya and Tanzania. Mr Concar told African journalists who had gathered at the event that as a start of a new year, it was fitting that the award looked to the future – to identify an exceptional talent with the ambition and potential to become a star of the future. “Someone who doesn’t just tell stories that matter – but tells African stories that matter, and tells them with flair and strong journalism skills,” he said. He noted that high quality African journalism needed to show that Africa is about much more than poverty, famine and conflict. It needed to tell the stories that matter about African innovation. “African businesses. African economies. African entrepreneurs. African films, music and African sport – look at how Morocco’s world cup run went viral in December,” he reminded. Launched in 2015, the prize was created to honour the memory of the distinguished Ghanaian broadcaster Komla Dumor, who presented on BBC Africa and BBC World News. Known for championing robust, dynamic journalism and for his commitment to reporting African stories comprehensively and authentically, Mr Dumor made a significant impact on Africa and the rest of the world. Being the first time for the award launch to be held in Tanzania, Mr Concar called for all journalists across the continent to take a look at the criteria and consider applying, but put emphasis on Tanzanian reporters. “I particularly want to encourage entries by journalists from Tanzania. I have seen first-hand the commitment that exists amongst journalists here, including through hard times. I know there is talent here that can go far,” he exuded. He also said today’s uncertain world, beset as it is with global challenges, needed great journalism. But, sustaining great journalism was becoming harder. “Funding for high-quality journalism, especially investigative reporting, is scarce. Journalists in many parts of the world struggle with low or unreliable pay and access to professional development,” said. Together with spending three months working in the BBC with news teams in London across television, radio and online, the successful candidate will also have the opportunity to travel to a country in Africa to report on a story that they generate and research, which will be broadcast to the BBC’s global audience. 