The Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) has condemned members of the the South African National Defence Force (SANDF) who were seen in a video purportedly mistreating corpses in Mozambique. The clip circulating on social media depicts some soldiers hurling a corpse over a pile of burning rubble, where at least another body is already strewn, in the armed conflict area of Cabo Delgado. A soldier then pours a liquid over the body as others, including one sporting a South African uniform, watch and film the scene on their mobile phones. What is shown on the video is unacceptable, the EFF said. “The video which shows bodies being burnt in a pile represents the highest level of insensitivity towards the deceased and violates all international laws regarding conduct during times of conflict.” “The EFF calls on government to hold the Commander of the SANDF battalion deployed to the SADC Mission in Mozambique accountable, and to provide clarity on the identity of the rogue military service men of the South African army complicit in the breach of permissible conduct of war and peace keeping, provided for in the Geneva Convention and Additional Protocols,” the red berets said. ALSO READ: SANDF intercepts alleged kidnapping incident, 7 suspects arrested   The red berets added that government is a signatory to the “these international instruments which regulate the conduct of armed conflict”. “The Protocols protect people who are no longer able to participate in the conflict including the injured and dead enemy forces. “The EFF will write to the minister responsible for SANDF seeking information on steps taken by the ministry in this regard and to demand swift action against such brazen stupidity resembling the old SADF Koevoet mercenaries in the border wars of the 80’s,” the party said. The SADC force commander had ordered an investigation into a “despicable act” that had entailed “throwing deceased bodies,” the SANDF said.  “The SANDF does not condone in any way the acts committed in the video and those who are found guilty of such acts will be brought to book,” it said.   ALSO READ: SANDF doesn’t have capacity to protect Eskom power plants