Mamelodi Sundowns extended their record of consecutive wins in the DStv last night when they overpowered TS Galaxy to beat them 2-1 at the Mbombela Stadium move 19 points clear at the top.  Rulani Mokwena’s men ran the show in Mpumalanga, with Galaxy chasing shadows for most of the game. It took the defending champions a little over 10 minutes to find the back of the net and the goal came from centre back Rushine De Reuck who headed from home a Gaston Sirino corner kick.  Sundowns now need just 16 points to match their tally of 65 points achieved last season. ALSO READ: Chiefs will have to wait it out for Stellenbosch duo The celebration was short-lived for De Reuck as he immediately dropped to the ground after heading past goalkeeper Melusi Bhuthelezi. He had to be taken off, but the pitchside report gave Sundowns a sigh of relief as the medical department reported that De Reuck suffered a mild concussion and there was no need to hospitalise the Downs defender. About 16 minutes later, Sead Ramovic was also forced to make a change when his goalie Buthelezi clashed with Peter Shalulile in an attempt to gather the ball. The nature of Buthelezi’s injury was unclear but he showed much despair as he was stretchered off, covering his face and shedding a tear in agonising pain. Vasilije Kolak came on in place of Buthelezi to make his third league appearance this season. Shalulile on the mark again  Shalulile got the second goal to give Sundowns a cushion in the 64th. Even though there was a bit of contention about Sirino being in an offside position before he played the square ball to Shalulile, Downs displayed their shoe-shine-and-piano brand of football, with slick passes in the build-up to the goal. The Namibian goal-getter has now banged in eight league goals as he looks to match Collins Mbesuma’s record of winning two Lesley Manyathela Golden Boot awards. ALSO READ: Folz unhappy but okay with AmaZulu draw with Gallants Bafana Ba Style received a gift from Pogiso Sanoka, who could’ve extinguished the danger, but he lost his footing after Sirino’s pass and the ball comically escaped from him and fell into the path of Shalulile.  Djakaridja Traore got the consolation goal for the hosst in stoppage time when he converted a penalty as The Rockets found the back of the net for the first time in five games.