BY: UNIVERSITY WORLD NEWS  A unique multi-level governance initiative that taps the research, innovation and engagement capacity of universities to help cities cope with climate change has been welcomed. However, some African experts say its success will depend on sufficient investment in universities, while some Asian experts say the project could be hamstrung by politics at local levels. The Sustainable Urban Resilience for the next Generation (SURGe) initiative, the first of its kind aimed at strengthening cities’ resilience to climate change, especially in vulnerable communities, was launched at the 27th session of the United Nations Conference on Climate Change (COP27) hosted at the Egyptian Red Sea city of Sharm El-Sheikh in November. A joint COP27 presidency-United Nations-Habitat initiative, it puts cities “at the frontline of climate change”. On the one hand, cities are generating planet-warming emissions. On the other, they are engines of climate action the necessary resources to translate ambition into action,” Pieterse told University World News.  Cities on climate battle map Cities are home to 55% of the global population – a figure that is expected to grow to 68% by 2050. In addition, urban areas account for about three-quarters of urban-related carbon dioxide emissions. About 70% of cities worldwide are already dealing with the effects of climate change. “There is growing international awareness that the climate battle will be won or lost in cities,” according to a statement on the SURGe website. The statement says that greenhouse gas emissions in cities could be reduced by almost 90% by 2050 with technically feasible and available measures, potentially supporting 87 million jobs in 2030 and generating a global economic dividend of US$24 trillion. However, technological and process innovations do not reach all cities, due to significant research and action gaps. Local governments often lack technical and human resources to address climate issues, in particular in the Global South, according to the initiative. Extreme weather impacts on urban services, housing, infrastructure, livelihoods, urban ecosystems and cultural practices, as well as the health and well-being of city residents. Therefore, the initiative will track buildings and housing practices, urban water systems, urban mobility, urban waste and consumption, and urban energy, all of which will be supported by partnerships and collaborations with organisations, including universities in Africa, Asia, Europe and the United States. Experts say there is urgency to build resilient and sustainable cities in Africa, taking into consideration the climate emergency.  PHOTO | FILE Universities participating in SURGe include Cairo University in Egypt, Kenyatta University in Kenya, the National University of Malaysia, the University of Agriculture Faisalabad in Pakistan as well as the University of Oxford (earth sciences) in the United Kingdom, the University of Southern Denmark and the New Polytechnic University of Turin in Italy, along with New York University, the University of Pennsylvania and Kennesaw State University in the United States. Estimates of the world’s fastest growing cities vary depending on which cities are included. For example, whether they are cities of 100,000 or more, 300,000 or more, and whether the focus is on percentage growth of the population or population growth in absolute numbers. Lists of the former bring up smaller cities while lists of the latter tend to be composed of very large cities or ‘megacities’. Thus an International Institute for Environment and Development (IIED) list of the fastest growing cities by population growth rate from 2000 to 2020 (among cities with 300,000+ inhabitants in 2018) is topped by Doha Industrial Area, Qatar; Xiongan, China; Rupganj, Bangladesh; Gwagwalada, Nigeria; and Miluo, China. However, their list, on the same webpage, of the fastest growing cities by annual increment in population from 2000-20 is topped by: Delhi, India; Shanghai, China; Dhaka, Bangladesh; Beijing, China; and Kinshasa, Democratic Republic of Congo. According to a World Economic Forum/Business Insider report, the world’s 15 fastest growing cities from 2020 to 2035 (of those that had at least 300,000 inhabitants in 2018) are all expected to be in Africa. By 2050, it is estimated that 50% of the African continent’s population will be classified as urban, making it four times the size of Europe’s urban population. Samir Khalaf Abd-El-Aal, a research professor at the Biotechnology Research Institute in Egypt, told University World News: “SURGe is extremely important for the hot-spot cities and settlements that are highly vulnerable to climate change in the Global South, especially in Africa and Asia.” According to him, these areas and their cities lack technical and human resources and suffer from weak technological capabilities to support context-specific innovative solutions to tackle the socio-economic challenges that come with urbanisation. Also welcoming the initiative, Oumar Sylla, the director of the Regional Office for Africa at the Kenya-based United Nations Human Settlements Programme (UN-Habitat), told University World News: “There is urgency to build resilient and sustainable cities in Africa, taking into consideration the climate emergency.”  Role of universities Sylla said that universities can do a lot to bridge knowledge gaps in the connection between cities and climate change: for example, regarding the importance of urban planning and improvement of informal settlements; on the question of climate financing (carbon sequestration for cities and non-public funding); and in relation to governance elements, especially the role of local governments. “Research innovation will be critical for the African continent in the coming months in addressing climate-related challenges in cities which are rapidly expanding. Data to inform decision-makers will be critical,” Sylla noted. “Capacity development will be the key in addressing climate-related challenges,” he said, adding that training and the creation of expertise will be important for Africa. “We need to adapt the curriculum of universities, connect urban planners with climate experts, and nurture the benefits of IT and other innovative technology. We need to establish peer learning systems among universities and research institutions in Africa,” Sylla said. For Sylla, the brain drain means that more incentives to do research in Africa and to serve the continent, especially for those specialising in local government and administration, are also necessary. Pieterse says universities need to play a role through inter- and transdisciplinary research to ensure policy-makers have the best evidence and data to understand how complex interrelated developmental pressures manifest in specific contexts of cities.