Here’s your morning news update: An easy-to-read selection of our top stories. Stay up to date with The Citizen – More News, Your Way. The Jacob Zuma Foundation has announced that the application brought by President Cyril Ramaphosa against former President Jacob Zuma has been rescheduled. The application was scheduled to be heard in the Johannesburg High Court on Tuesday. Zuma filed his answering affidavit opposing Ramaphosa’s urgent application to the High Court in Johannesburg interdicting the former president from pursuing his private prosecution against him. The United Democratic Movement (UDM) has called on Parliament to consider appointing a retired judge to look into information or evidence that the state capture commission of inquiry might have missed. UDM leader Bantu Holomisa on Monday wrote a letter to National Assembly Speaker Nosiviwe Maphisa-Nqakula claiming that his party submitted evidence of state capture to the commission, but it seemed the information might have been deliberately ignored. This follows a report in the Sunday Independent, earlier this month, alleging an explosive affidavit implicating several high-profile individuals and politicians in corruption was disregarded by the commission that was chaired by Chief Justice Raymond Zondo. Patriotic Alliance’s Elizabeth Lethoko was elected the mayor of Ditsobotla local municipality at a special sitting held in Mahikeng’s Ngaka Modiri Molema District Municipality’s headquarters. This after the official meeting on 28 December was allegedly disrupted by the Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF). The ANC entered into a coalition arrangement with the Forum 4 Service Delivery (F4SD) and the PA, as it did not secure an outright majority victory. ALSO READ: Ditsobotla municipality: ‘A humanitarian, constitutional crisis’ – Sakeliga Gauteng residents have been warned of extreme heat conditions in the coming week. Regional weather service, Gauteng Weather, has forecasted temperatures in the high teens following the persistent rain over the past few weeks. According to Gauteng Weather, the province will experience hot and dry weather. After the scary attempted burglary at Shauwn “MamMkhize” and Sbu Mpisane’s mansion in La Lucia over the weekend, the businessman has spoken out.  Security guards foiled an attempted burglary of Mkhize and Mpisane’s triple-storey where the divorced couple live in separate wings.  Three burglars were involved, one was injured, and the two others got away without any possessions. It was reported that Mpisane’s side of the house was targeted.  Orlando Pirates have instructed their scouts to double their efforts to find a goalkeeper before the end of the current transfer window. Pirates have long had goalkeeping problems which looked to be solved when they signed Richard Ofori from Maritzburg United two years ago. The Ghanaian, however, has had injury problems and has spent more time on the sidelines getting medical attention than on the field.