The Democratic Alliance (DA) has turned to the courts in bid to stop the implementation of Eskom’s electricity tariff increase. The National Energy Regulator of South Africa’s (Nersa) approval of an 18.65% tariff hike for Eskom has been met with backlash and anger from ordinary citizens, organisations and political parties amid the country’s current energy crisis. South Africans have been feeling the rising cost of living for some time, coupled with various stages of load shedding in recent times. The DA has criticised the price hike, saying it was far above inflation and excessive adding that the increase will leave people having to choose between buying food or electricity. “Keep in mind that electricity tariffs have already increased by more than 650% since this crisis started in 2007, which is quadruple the inflation rate over the same period,” DA leader John Steenhuisen said during a media briefing on Tuesday. “The DA rejects this tariff increase by Nersa, we reject stage 6 load shedding, and we reject government’s poor response – or rather, lack of response – to the biggest crisis our country has faced in the history of our democracy.” ALSO READ: Eskom: Thanks Nersa, too bad, so sad for the rest of you With the new revised tariffs and prices set to be effective from 1 April, Steenhuisen said the DA has since decided to take the legal route, seeking an interdict. He indicated that the DA has asked the courts to have Nersa’s decision declared inconsistent with the Constitution, invalid and set aside. The party also wants an end to the continuous implementation of load shedding. “[The DA is seeking relief] to have government’s response to the ongoing energy crisis declared inconsistent with the Constitution and invalid.” According to Steenhuisen, the government has failed in its obligational duty to provide energy to South Africans. “As part of this application, we will also ask that the court direct government to file, within 30 days, a comprehensive plan, including short-term, medium-term and long-term steps, to avert the energy crisis. RELATED: ‘Eskom is essentially making consumers pay for their own inefficiencies’ “It has become clear that government will not act in the interests of the citizens of this country, including protecting them from blackouts and unaffordable electricity tariffs, unless compelled by a court of law to do so,” the DA leader added. In addition, the DA is expected to march to the African National Congress’ (ANC) headquarters at Luthuli House in Johannesburg, to demonstrate against rolling power cuts and the latest electricity tariff increase. The march is planned for 25 January. Meanwhile, a group of law firms and political parties led by Mabuza Attorneys have written a letter of demand to Public Enterprises Minister Pravin Gordhan and Eskom demanding an end to load shedding. They are demanding that there be no load shedding without procedural fairness and a fair opportunity to make alternative arrangements to affected persons and businesses. The parties include United Democratic Movement (UDM) leader – Bantu Holomisa, Build One South Africa founder – Mmusi Maimane, and the Inkatha Freedom Party (IFP) amongst others. Their lawyers will pursue a court challenge if their demands are not met by Friday. NOW READ: Complaints about unfair distribution of load shedding