Something should be said about how South Africa’s musicians on the international stage have authentically broadcasted on many genres, resulting in notable brands taking notice and investing in them such as Rémy Martin Producers competition.  Rémy Martin, the premium cognac brand is known for its caviller status and continuing to invest in young aspiring artists by awarding them with once-in-a-lifetime opportunities.  Having created their first Rémy Producers in 2019, they brushed off the Covid-19 pandemic to bring the competition back for 2023.  Hosting the finale in Johannesburg earlier last week, Rémy Martin Producers season two was partnered up with the popular music duo Major League DJz to find the next hottest beatmaker and producer.  They were over 1 200 submissions and the number was whittled down to 10. Those who made the final cut attended a boot camp in Johannesburg.  The entries were mentored, trained, and participated in challenges, as Major League DJz with industry experts decided on the final three.  The finalist was tasked with making a 10-minute set that paid tribute to their hometown and 24-year-old Thuto Moloi, also known as Thuto the Human from Ga-Rankuwa, Tshwane come out as the winner.  His music mix matched the criteria the judges were looking for, which included making the audience move.  With the mix consisting of Amapiano tracks, speaking to The Citizen, Moloi said he entered as a way to get his name known in the industry and said his winning set was meant to be a crowd pleaser, “to drive the culture forward”. Thuto’s big prizes includes being the opening act for Major League DJz in Dubai for a gig in March, an opportunity his excited for.  Winner of the first season Profound had a simple message for Thuto to work hard and not get comfortable after winning as there is a lot of groundwork he has to cover.  The South African Music Awards (Samas) nominated producer, unfortunately, didn’t get to reap most of his rewards after winning the first Rémy Martin Producers because of the Covid-19 pandemic.  He produced a song with the late Riky Rik and could have a trip to Atlanta in the United States to meet the Remy Producers winners in the states including meeting legendary producer Jermaine Dupri.  The biggest outcome Profound had was connecting with the Rémy US winner, digitally. “All I was looking for was the stamp of approval in the game and for the industry to take me seriously. It was also great to win this type of competition because most artists I pitch my music to have a high level of trust in my music, so it’s easy to access those collaborations,” he said.  There was an obvious missing representation in the top 10, there were no female producers.  Profound helped select the top 10 and said their aim was for it to be as diverse as possible which meant different sounds and genres.  He said from the entries they were only aware of the artist’s name and their beat.  “I am hoping females did enter but it is something we hope to incorporate because we are very aware that we need to bring more representation in the game.”