There’s a new horrible older sister in town and viewers of The Wife just don’t get why Tshedi Montsho, played by actress Mo Setumo, takes things as far as she does.  According to Showmax, Tshedi is the loyal older daughter of Kgosi Montsho and Naledi’s elder sister. However, she was never as smart as Naledi and from an early age, she could tell that Naledi was Kgosi’s favourite.  “So, in response, Tshedi subconsciously starts taking her duty as the eldest seriously – this is her way of seeking Kgosi’s approval. But, her actions become more and more questionable as she tries to assassinate her little sister’s character.” Tshedi and Naledi would’ve given us a very beautiful siblingship, I enjoyed that conversation ???????? #TheWifeShowmax So why, exactly, does Tshedi take things as far as she does? Showmax caught up Mo Setumo to find out more about her character. I kind of feel bad for Tshedi… Naledi clearly doesn’t want the throne but she still won’t get it #TheWifeShowmax— your sbwl (@zwotheramabale) December 22, 2022 This comes after she orchestrated the recording and leaking of a sex tape featuring her sister and her star-crossed lover, Qhawe Zulu. The sex tape has gone viral and more and more people are realising that it is Naledi in the video which is taking a major knock on the reputation of the chief’s preferred successor, Dr Naledi Montsho.  Tshedi is very layered, she’s always scheming and you never know what she has up her sleeve. I think that’s what gives her that element of being interesting. She’s always up to something. ALSO READ: Ezomshado: MaCele and MaKhumalo to kick off the new year with a new show Firstly, I hope no one relates to my character because if you do and you’re an older sister then you’re a problem. Tshedi is a problem for Naledi, for her dad and so I hope you don’t relate. Naledi & Tshedi would be such great and fun sisters to watch if Tshedi wasn't so power hungry. That parking lot scene was so sweet and  entertaining ????????#TheWifeShowmax pic.twitter.com/zjnNJerZ5S— Mandisa Malevu???????? (@MalevuMandisa) December 29, 2022 There’s a lot, but I can’t say names because I can’t expose people. But it’s justified, you know how parents always make the older siblings feel like they are the parents and the youngest are the favourite ones. Parents need to start loving their children the same and treat them equally. That way, they won’t have a Tshedi situation. I find Ntsika, the youngest Zulu brother, very interesting. Besides that can’t Kgosi see that Tshedi is trying soo hard to paint Naledi as a troublesome girl ????#TheWifeShowmax https://t.co/fxOtQ3Vjfg— Kagiso (@_iamkagiso_) December 29, 2022 First of all, Tshedi doesn’t believe that. If Naledi marries Sefako then Tshedi won’t get what she wants. I also think people should be able to go with who they really love. They shouldn’t be told who to love. So Naledi should go with who she loves and that’s Mo speaking. I love that question. I think we are always viewed as the sweet and gullible tribe. Now you’re about to see that we also got bombs, we also got flames and we can also kill. But with a dash of elegance. This week’s episodes sucked. I’m tired of this stupid diamond stuff, we came for Qhaledi mara they’re not  even in a relationship at this point???????? I’m even starting to think the writers didn’t read that book because Sello being this loving husband? Tshedi?????????#TheWifeShowmax— khanya. (@kayy_mabs) December 24, 2022 New episodes of The Wife Season three stream only on Showmax every Thursday. READ NEXT: The Wife: Sex tape scandal causes further strain between Qhawe and Naledi