Proteas women’s players Shabnim Ismail, Ayabonga Khaka and Laura Wolvaardt have been named in the ICC Women’s ODI Team of the Year, while Proteas men’s player Kagiso Rabada was named in the ICC Men’s Test Team of the Year. Seamer Ismail took 37 wickets in 16 innings, including a best of five for eight against Ireland in Dublin, in the 50-over format. Ismail also finished second on the wicket-taking charts with 14 scalps – only outdone by England’s Sophie Ecclestone – at the World Cup. Khaka meanwhile picked up 27 wickets in 17 outings, claiming a maiden five-wicket haul against the West Indies at the Wanderers in Johannesburg. Proteas batter Wolvaardt meanwhile dispatched 882 ODI runs in 18 innings, which also featured eight half-centuries and one hundred scored against the Windies at the Wanderers. Wolvaardt’s runs not only helped South Africa achieve their success in the last 12 months, but it also meant she became the highest run scorer in 2022, where she broke a 25-year stronghold by the previous top two in Australian Belinda Clark (970 runs) and New Zealand’s Deborah Hockley (880). Rabada led the way with the red ball in 2022, finishing the calendar year as the joint top wicket-taker with 47 scalps at an average of 22.25.  He added two five-wicket hauls to his ever-growing wicket tally and etched his name on the Lord’s Honours Boards with his 5-52 against England in August, which helped South Africa secure a memorable win at the Home of Cricket.  The 27-year-old also picked up 5-60 in the second Test against New Zealand in February as South Africa bounced back to draw the series 1-1. Rewarded for consistent performances ????Here are the XI players who make it to the ICC Men's Test Team of the Year 2022 ????More ???? https://t.co/LNg14SOdZI#ICCAwards pic.twitter.com/5lnLswUdgQ— ICC (@ICC) January 24, 2023 Cricket South Africa CEO Pholetsi Moseki praised the players for their efforts in 2022. “Shabnim, Ayabonga, Laura, and Kagiso continue to be torchbearers for South Africa’s pride. Their hard-work, excellence and grit with ball and bat are a marvel to behold, coupled with their temperament to always stand shoulder-high above the rest,” said Moseki. “These accolades are testament to the depth of talent that we have in the cricket space; a treasure-trove which makes us beam with pride. Congratulations to the quartet on these stellar achievements and for inscribing their names with ICC greats.” Click here to see all the ICC teams