The issue of corporal punishment has once again made headlines in the media in the wake of a brutal event in Kagera Region when a primary school teacher was caught on tape flogging pupils on the soles of their feet. The video doing the rounds on social media, unfortunately, originates from the same region where in 2018 a teacher fatally assaulted 13-year-old Sperius Eradius, a pupil at Kibena Primary School. Indeed, the way the pupils were flogged implies that such antiquated punishments are still widely used across the nation, but that many occurrences go unreported. Flogging is not prohibited in Tanzania, but the procedures for carrying out such punishment are expressly outlined in national legislation, and all teachers should be aware of them. Despite the noble nature of their work, some teachers from the current generation behave as though they had never attended a training institution. The most recent event is disgraceful and does nothing but deter learners from pursuing their studies. The Education ministry’s decision to suspend and mandate the teacher’s detention is commendable. However, because the issue is still widespread, more action is needed to eradicate the vice. To think about the abuse students received is heartbreaking. There is never a justification for such a heinous conduct, regardless of the provocation. Physical punishment such as slapping, spanking, and caning is typically not categorised as abuse. Where cane is used, though, must adhere to the established rules. There is little doubt that parents send their kids to school to receive an education rather than to perish at the hands of their teachers. Parents believe that schools provide a safe atmosphere free from abuse, neglect, violence, and other inhumane behaviour for students. In reality, parents entrust teachers with their most prized possessions: their children. They aid in developing the necessary abilities, knowledge, and values in upcoming employees, leaders, and citizens. It is crucial that they establish a more cordial method of instructing and guiding their students.