Model Chrissy Teigen married to award-winning musician John Legend has welcomed their new baby.  The married couple, who already have two children together, have been open about their struggles to get pregnant again after doing a medical abortion prior.  In February 2022, Teigen revealed they were undergoing fertility treatments in an effort to possibly have another child. Chrissy Teigen and her husband were undergoing fertility treatments for two years after they lost their son Jack on 30 September 2020.  Posting a picture of their new baby for the first time on her Instagram account, Legend and their two children, Luna (6) and Miles (4), are seen holding their new sibling in a beautiful picture.   “She’s here! Esti Maxine Stephens – the house is bustling and our family could not be happier. Daddy sheds nightly tears of joy seeing Luna and Miles so full of love, and I am learning you still need diapers with a c-section!?  “We are in bliss. Thank you for all the love and well wishes – we feel it all!” Teigen wrote.   Teigen has been vocal about the loss of their son Jack. The term rainbow baby means a baby lost by miscarriage, stillbirth or natural cause.  Teigen was hospitalised in September 2020, and later shared in multiple social media posts recounting her experience of losing a baby, which would have been her third with Legend. She would reveal that she had an abortion in 2020 to save her life when it became clear her son would not live, and they did not have a miscarriage.  “Let’s just call it what it was: It was an abortion,” Teigen said Thursday at an event organised by social impact agency Propper Daley, according to The Hollywood Reporter. “It became very clear around halfway through that he would not survive, and that I wouldn’t either without any medical intervention,” she explained. This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. This is a modal window. This modal can be closed by pressing the Escape key or activating the close button. When it was first reported that the couple had a miscarriage, the businesswoman of the food empire Cravings by Chrissy Teigen said it took her over a year to release they actually had an abortion.  “I told the world we had a miscarriage, the world agreed we had a miscarriage, [and] all the headlines said it was a miscarriage.  “And I became really frustrated that I didn’t, in the first place, say what it was, and I felt silly that it had taken me over a year to actually understand that we had an abortion.”