Video footage of the seal attack at Clifton beach on Wednesday has spread like wildfire, and it has since emerged that one of the victims of the traumatic incident is none other than American actress Loulou Taylor. The Raised by Wolvesactress was one of two victims of a seal attack at the popular Cape Town beach yesterday. A young boy was attacked first before the seal swam towards Taylor and started attacking her. ALSO SEE: WATCH: ‘Get out of the water’ – Baby seal attacks swimmers at Clifton 4th beach This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. This is a modal window. This modal can be closed by pressing the Escape key or activating the close button. She was bitten six times and had to be rushed to the ER after the attack.  She took to her Instagram stories to share her ordeal with her followers.  “Be careful swimming at Clifton! I was attacked by a seal in the water and bitten 6 times, requiring an ER visit and strong antibiotics. They have big teeth. Thank you those who helped me in and out of the water.” The actress also shared an update on her injuries later on Wednesday, saying that she was on the mend.  “Status update! I’m on the mend. Recent surge in seal attacks is linked to an algae bloom that releases a neurotoxin which triggers aggressive behaviour. What might cause the algae blooms? More than likely global warming/water pollution,” the actress wrote. The Hout Bay Seal Rescue Centre, however, told News24that the seal was stressed by a crowd of people surrounding it. The centre’s marketing director Dune Spence-Ross told the publication that the now viral video of the seal attack doesn’t show that part of the video. “Any predator that is surrounded and harassed like the seal was would have reacted the same way, but of course the video doesn’t show the part where the seal is being stressed by a crowd of people surrounding it. Yesterday, the beachgoers were lucky… it was only a yearling approximately 12 months old, weighing no more than 10kg by the looks of it. “If that was a fully grown seal, the headlines would have been very different,”S pence-Ross said. Not only is actress LouLou Taylor known for her roles in Raised by Wolves, Detour and Farah goes Bang, she is also a classically trained ballet dancer and artist. She was born in South Africa, but she grew up in Los Angeles. According to her biography on IMDB, her Hungarian mother was a refugee from the Soviet Invasion of Eastern Europe in 1956. Her British-Zambian father is an award-winning television and commercial director and documentary film-maker. She also has an older brother, Misha Taylor, who is an award-winning fashion photographer. NOW READ: Woolworths prices too rich for ‘Survivor’ presenter Nico Panagio, and tweeps agree