It has emerged that Kaizer Chiefs football director Kaizer Motaung Junior was so angry after the team’s 4-0 loss at AmaZulu FC last weekend he called an impromptu meeting with the players.  ALSO READ: Agent gives update on Andile Jali’s future at Sundowns Phakaaathi has learnt through sources that Motaung was fuming after the game and hurriedly called the players into their dressing room where he dressed them down.  It was Chiefs’ second heavy defeat of the season having suffered the same against Mamelodi Sundowns in their opening DStv Premiership game in August.  But this one was a little too hard to take to the club’s management who felt the team was getting better and should not have lost to AmaZulu who were also struggling.  “Ey, Junior was fuming after the game. I came across him and he was talking to himself and spitting expletives,” said a source, who is a backroom staffer at one the teams.  “He scolded the players and told them to hurry into the dressing room as he wanted to ‘talk to them’. “But it was clear that he wanted to give them a piece of his mind. I could not even greet him that day because I could see he was not the Junior that I know.  “He is usually a jovial guy who greets and shakes hands with everyone, but that day we all just saw that we better get off his way,” added the source.  Another source said Kaizer Junior read the players the riot act in that short meeting and he made it clear that the club was unhappy with their performances of late.  Chiefs coach Arthur Zwane was, however,more forgiving after the game saying his team had been better than AmaZulu on the day.  Zwane said had Chiefs used the chances they created before Usuthu scored their first goal, they would have got a different result.  “We were doing quite well, but when the opposition made mistakes we didn’t punish them. “And we had our chances; Caleb (Bimenyimana) should have scored and then Mshini (Nkosingiphile Ngcobo), (Wandile) Duba, (Edmilson) Dove and (Kgaogelo) Sekgota also should have scored. “Overall, we didn’t play that badly. We knew they would sit back but we just didn’t capitalise on our opportunities.  “We must improve our final third entry decision making but it’s something we’ll keep working on until we get it right,” Zwane said after the game. Amakhosi have a testing match as they meet runaway log leaders Mamelodi Sundowns in a league game at FNB Stadium on Saturday evening.