A disjointed and error filled Lions were no match for a Connacht team that dominated from start to finish as they fell to a heavy 43-24 (halftime 29-17) defeat in their United Rugby Championship (URC) match at the Sportsground in Galway on Saturday night. Connacht ran in six tries to three from the Lions, but it was the lack of basic skills from the visitors that led to the big defeat as they lost their own lineouts, knocked on, were charged down and allowed the hosts too much space in a disappointing showing. ALSO READ: Lions to take learnings from tough tour into Connacht match Connacht scrumhalf Caolin Blade was in sublime form for his side as he ran in a hattrick, while their flyhalf Jack Carty pulled all the strings and nailed six out of seven shots at goal in a top showing. Connacht got off to a flying start in the match as they worked their way up field from the kick-off, made their way into the Lions 22m and earned space for right wing Diarmuid Kilgallen to waltz over in the corner. Carty missed is only shot of the night with his conversion attempt, which allowed Lions flyhalf Jordan Hendrikse cut the deficit to two points with a penalty off the kick-off, only for Carty to respond with one of his own to make it 8-3 after seven minutes. The Lions then scored their first try in the 10th minute as they attacked from a 5m lineout, getting close where prop Asenathi Ntlabakanye picked up and powered over from close range, with Hendrikse adding the extras. The back and forth game continued four minutes later as hooker Shane Delahunt forced his way over from close range as Connacht retook the lead with the score 15-10. In the 25th minute Connacht were in again as scrumhalf Caolin Blade surged through the Lions defence after good work in the visitors 22m, with Carty on target with the conversion. The Lions finally hit back in the 32nd minute after some top play in the home sides 22m, centre Henco van Wyk then took it upon himself to get over the line as he powered through a tackle, stepped the last defender and went over, with adding the extras and the score 22-17. It was a double blow for Connacht as Delahunt received a yellow card for cynical play just before the try, but despite being a man down they had the final say of the half as a skip pass in the Lions 22m from Carty found fullback Tiernan O’Halloran in acres of space to go over for a converted try untouched. Connacht essentially ended the game as a contest straight after the restart, as a poor clearance attempt in his own 22m from Hendrikse was charged down, allowing Blade to pick up the ball and go over for his second, as Carty’s extras gave them a 36-17 lead. Blade then rounded off his hattrick in the 62nd minute, picking and sniping over from close range as the Lions continued to wilt under continueous pressure. The Lions managed to immediately respond after earning a penalty in the Connacht 22m, inside centre Marius Louw caught the home side napping with a quick tap to go over, while Hendrikse converted to make it 43-24 after 65 minutes. If the visitors hoped that would spark a late comeback, they were sorely disappointed as the home side dominated the last 15 minutes, but a host of knock-ons in the visitors 22m meant they couldn’t add to their tally. Scorers Connacht: Tries – Diarmuid Kilgallen, Shane Delahunt, Caolin Blade (3), Tiernan O’Halloran; Conversions – Jack Carty (5); Penalty – Carty Lions: Tries – Asenathi Ntlabakanye, Henco van Wyk, Marius Louw; Conversions: Jordan Hendrikse (3); Penalty – Hendrikse