Lebogang ‘Shugasmakx’ Mothibe is known for his artistry in the iconic hip-hop group Skwatta Kamp and the star celebrated a milestone with his wife Linda Zungu Mothibe over the past week.  We haven’t heard much from Shugasmakx over the years as he has taken his career behind the scenes in television and business.  The Swatta Kamp member shared a personal milestone with his wife.  Shugasmakx wrote about his 10 year anniversary to Linda and said: “10 Years And Counting…[Traditional] and Signing 2013, Western Celebration 2015… We’ve Travelled, Started A Family And Built A Home. We Thank The Angels That Watch Over Us And The Angels That Walk With Us. To God Be The Glory. Here’s To Many More. #230113. His wife is a chartered accountant and they have two sons.  Shugasmakx still performs music however creating TV shows has lately been his big success.  Through his production company, Buttabing Entertainment they have created dramas such as Grootboom and Sons and Umbuso for Mzansi Magic. ALSO READ:  EXCLUSIVE: ‘I looked my husband in the eyes for the first time on our wedding day’ – Magdalene Moonsamy Grootboom and Sons received a second season, speaking on the success, Shugasmakx said: “Thanks to the team and most importantly the good people for watching and making sure we perform strong on the viewership ratings.” Actress Zandile Msutwana leads the drama based on internal family struggles. The drama asks the question: What if the fate of a family business was left in the hands of the wrong sibling? Msutwana stars as the lead and her character is estranged from her family’s funeral business, with one sister on her deathbed and the other having their own plans to take over the business. The cast includes Safta winner Bongile Mantsai seen on Knuckle City and the award-winning Inxeba, and Charmaine Mtinta (Igazi and Isibaya). ALSO READ: The Queen’s Zandile Msutwana to lead new TV drama Shugasmakx also assisted in couples getting down on one knee as he was the presenter of My Perfect Prosopal in 2014.