Working environments have changed quite radically over the last decade or so, making the job hunt so much harder.  While employees have become more particular about the type of working environment and the conditions they want for themselves, employers too have become more particular, too.  Not just about the educational qualifications but the personality types and quality traits they want from their employees. If you are fresh out of school and looking to hit the job market, here is a list of a few things employers could look to that could potentially sway them to hire you. ALSO READ: 30% pass mark undermines the intellect of SA’s youth – Maimane Life in the labour-hood is constantly changing and it changes quite fast. One thing a good employee needs to know is how to change with it. This is harder than most people think – especially when one gets used to a system and way for things to work at their workplace. Breaking out of that routine sometimes requires a complete overhaul of methodologies and what use to be structures that worked seamlessly – and this alone can be quite frustrating. But it is those who can prevail through all the change and frustration that emerge the preferred hire.  According to the career experts at Indeed.com, the ability to adapt is an important quality that employers want. Workplace chemistry is a thing. And it’s definitely something employers want to achieve. Why? Simply because it increases productivity. Generally, it is found that the naysayers on a team tend to bring the entire morale down and quite obviously have a negative effect on the rest of the employees.  NOW READ:  Here’s how your matric marks are calculated and how much you need to pass Australia’s more popular job site, Seek.com says: “Attitude is infectious in a workplace, which is why employers place a high value on staff members who are upbeat and optimistic and bring a positive, can-do attitude with them to every task and board meeting. Because of this, a good attitude is also often important for good cultural fit.” For this reason, employers may listen to the way you describe your current situation, your current job, your country with all its electricity problems and even your current financial status.  If you speak optimistically about these things, you will likely bring the same can-do and can-even-[make]-do attitude to the office which is imperative for the company’s success. This might seem like it could classify as a skill, but it is also more of a personality trait.  Those who use apps for everything – like keeping track of their finances and creating lists for what to pack for that weekend away – and turn to gadgets to get things done tend to catch the eye of the hirer. The tech-savvy just seem to have a way to make their lives more efficient, and in turn, bring the same air of efficiency to the way they do their jobs.  They are also more likely to adapt to the new technological advancements in systems the company may bring in at a later stage. So if you don’t know how to create a working google document, or use your phone’s appointment calendar, it’s best you start making the effort to learn. We’re not talking about a company’s preference for gym buffs here – No, your interviewer isn’t going to ask you if you lift.  But they will look at your interests like keeping fit and hobbies that help nourish and maintain your mental health.  A healthy employee is a happy employee and a happy employee looks to deliver their optimal outputs. So yes, your good grades and your hard work will get you to the interviewer’s desk.  But it will likely be your can-do attitude and forward-thinking tendencies that get you onto the payroll.