Here’s your morning news update: An easy-to-read selection of our top stories. Stay up to date with The Citizen – More News, Your Way. The infamous Tembisa decuplets have made one more return to the spotlight, after the Public Protector released a report on Friday, confirming that there is no evidence the babies’ mother was ever pregnant, or that they ever existed at all. Acting Public Protector advocate Kholeka Gcaleka released her 57-page report into the matter, following a complaint by the father of the still-unseen miracle babies in June of last year. Tebogo Edward Tsotetsi had issued a complaint to the Public Protector’s office based on six points related to the decuplets’ mother, Gosiame Sithole. As South Africans prepare to usher in 2023, President Cyril Ramaphosa has called on the country to unite and work together in the New Year to overcome SA’s socio-economic challenges. In his New Year message on Saturday, Ramaphosa said 2022 has been a difficult year during which South Africans continued to endure the hardships that are given rise to by unemployment, poverty and persistent inequality. On top of all this, the president said citizens have had to deal with the rising cost of living, natural disasters and the load shedding crisis. ALSO READ: As 2023 dawns, we need hope as citizens to get through tough times Gift of the Givers founder Dr. Imtiaz Sooliman has been selected as the “Person of the Year” by Afrikaaans magazine, Vrye Weekblad. This comes as no surprise as Dr. Sooliman and the NGO he leads continues to lead in its humanitarian efforts to assist those who are in need. With the Boksburg Christmas eve explosion death toll now at 34, Gift of the Givers have upgraded its facilities at the Charlotte Maxeke Johannesburg Academic Hospital (CMJAH) to assist the influx of patients injured in the blast. Dozens of people were left critically injured when a gas tanker exploded near the OR Tambo Memorial Hospital at the weekend. Blood & Water actress Natasha Thahane stunned Mzansi when she announced her pregnancy in March. Taking to Instagram at the time, the television personality shared a picture from her maternity shoot, wearing a silky two-piece crimson bralette and skirt against a silky crimson backdrop, cradling her pregnant belly. ALSO SEE: Natasha Thahane shows off her post-baby body The Isono actress has been very private about the details of her child’s paternity. South Africans have been speculating about the child’s father since news of Thahane’s pregnancy almost broke the internet. While nothing has been confirmed, it is believed that Orlando Pirates forward, Thembinkosi Lorch is the baby’s father, as the couple has been in an on-and-off relationship for a few years. In October, rumours were rife on social platforms that Thahane had tied the knot. This after the actress shared a series of photos on her personal Instagram account dressed in traditional attire. It is fair to say Thembinkosi Lorch has been the darling of the Orlando Pirates supporters since he joined the Buccaneers in 2015. But in recent seasons, the 29-year-old’s star has been dimmed as injuries continue to stand in the way of his progress. “Nyoso”, as he is affectionately known, only turned out five times for Pirates in the DStv Premiership this season, with his last appearance being in a goalless draw against SuperSport United. This season, the skillful attacker only managed to get about 383 minutes under his belt. ALSO READ: Mokwena lifts lid on ‘coach’ Jali’s future at Downs His coach, Jose Riveiro, under what sounds like strict instructions from management, decided to say little, or nothing at all about the status of Lorch’s injury and when he is expected to return to the team.