Friday 6 January S10 V2 Richards Bay have been the surprise package of the season so far, but can they extend that fairytale start to life in the topflight by beating champions Mamelodi Sundowns on Friday? M1 Paris FC vs Valenciennes: Valenciennes were away at Paris FC just over two months ago and won 1-0 in Ligue 2 action. Now they return for a Coupe de France tie. M2 Racing Strasbourg vs Angers: Both clubs have lost their two matches since returning to action after the World Cup break. They are in the bottom two places in Ligue 1 but this a French Cup tie. M3 Elche vs Celta Vigo: Elche are bottom of LaLiga with a paltry four points while Celta are just above the drop zone but have 13 points.  M4 Richards Bay vs Mamelodi Sundowns: Top of the table meeting between the two sides with the strongest defences in the league. Sundowns have conceded five goals and Richards Bay six, both in 14 matches. M5 Sporting Gijon vs Levante: Levante are only two points behind the leaders in the Spanish second division. Gijon beat top flight Rayo Vallecano in a cup match on Tuesday. M6 Swallows FC vs Chippa United: Swallows have lost both games since the arrival of new coach Ernst Middendorp while Chippa have lost once in their previous seven outings. M7 Standard Liege vs Sint-Truiden: Standard have collected a single point from their last three Belgian league games. St Truiden have scored nine goals in winning their past three outings. M8 Manchester United vs Everton: FA Cup third round tie where Man Utd are looking to make it seven victories in a row. Everton were in Manchester last weekend when they took an away point off champions Man City.  M9 Valencia vs Cadiz: Valencia have won one of their past seven LaLiga outings. Cadiz are in second last place in the Spanish league standings. M10 Famalicao vs Vizela: Both clubs were weekend winners as the Portuguese league returned to action. Vizela are four points above Famalicao in the standings. Suggested permutation:  R4.00 1 x 1 x 1 x 3 x 2,3 x 1 x 1 x 1 x 1 x 1