Social media content creator Nadia Jaftha celebrated a big milestone this week after sharing the happy news that she is a homeowner.  Jaftha is known for her hilarious comedic content on Instagram and TikTok and has a following of over 500,0000.  Jaftha shared pictures of her new home on her account, showing the inside of the apartment. The pictures showed a blue ribbon wrapped around her door as the real estate agent handed over the home.  Jaftha also revealed she bought the house before she turned 30. “Your girl is a homeowner. If you asked me if I’d be a homeowner before 30 a few years ago, I wouldn’t have believed you but here I am counting my blessings every single day!” Congratulations poured in for Jaftha, including from friends such as DJ Zinhle, Boity and Ayanda Thabethe. In September 2022, the first-ever DStv Content Creator Awards took place.  The awards were hosted by comedian, Loyiso Madinga and brought to life some of the most viewed social media reels and videos in the form of an opening dance piece, choreographed by none other than Bontle Modiselle Dance Studio. Jaftha walked away with the biggest award of the evening – the DStv Content of the Year Award – but also took home the Comedy Award and Thumb-stopping Award. Speaking about her win, Nadia said: “It is an honour to win such an award, and never in my wildest thoughts did I think that I would win three awards.  Thank you to everyone who voted for me and to everyone who voted for any of the amazing content creators who were nominees in their respective categories.” The influencer also bagged the Tropical of Tropika Island of Treasure winner’s  title in 2020, walking away with R1 million.  Jaftha won the award with MC Trevor Lagerway.  “As much as I want to celebrate, I also recognize that this is an incredibly trying time.. which is why I have decided to donate a portion of my winnings towards the Habibia Children’s Home and various other charities. I am also an ambassador for ‘Nourish the Children’ and I will continue to do my part by supporting and contributing towards their initiatives.” READ NEXT: This is how much footballers are earning from fake followers