The relationship between the musician group Black Motion and its former member Bongani Mohosana, formerly known as Murdah Bongz but now goes by the name of Morda, seems to be damaged beyond repair as there is now a legal battle.  In 2022, the award-winning Afro-House group made up of Morda and Thabo Smol was dogged by rumours that they had split.  It appeared that the spilt was temporary and amicable as Morda was focusing on his solo career, however, there was no clarity where he stood despite a new member Problem Childten being introduced.  Through their representative, Spirit Motion, Black Motion confirmed that they took Morda to court after charges of housebreaking and theft.  A court order by the High Court in Gauteng posted on social media has ordered Morda to “restore possession of a recording studio apparatus” to the group by 13 January, at 5pm.  Black Motion posted pictures of the alleged damage caused by Morda – a broken door and stolen equipment.  It is also claimed he had stolen music from Problem Childten.  When the allegations came to light in December 2022, Morda’s legal representative, Neo Mashele, told Sunday Worldit didn’t make sense to allege his client broke into his own house. ALSO READ: Former Black Motion member Morda accused of theft Posting a cryptic post on Twitter, on Wednesday, confirming the legal action against Morda, the group’s caption left many people bewildered.  “Tick – Tock. Always enter like a kitten and leave like a lion. But NEVER enter like a lion and leave like a kitten. Always be humble,” they wrote.   Tick – Tock “Always enter like a kitten and leave like a lion. But NEVER enter like a lion and leave like a kitten. Always be humble." #TheRestIsHistory#RemainHumble pic.twitter.com/4R4yI0RGS0— Black Motion (@black_motion) January 11, 2023 Many people commented on Black Motion’s post and the group said the legal action is for the law to be respected and attempting to avoid being labelled in a certain way.  “No one needs to hate anyone and we have to respect the law and it’s protocols,” they said.  The Citizen has reached out to Morda’s representative for comment and is still waiting for a response.  Spirit of motion VS Bongani "Morda" Mahosana, this is very sad this is not the @black_motion we signed up for. pic.twitter.com/Luh7ammhOE— Ras Cal Ugesi (@rascaldj_za) January 11, 2023 Court has the final say. @black_motion will never die. Morda must do the right thing. We love Tjabo Small and Problem Child. pic.twitter.com/YC0ZiNulXQ— #KwenistoMpheMotho (@KwenistoRSA) January 11, 2023 I don’t care what the story is but I’m on Thabo’s side.he’s been trying hard to keep black motion alive and we grateful.— SewelaNkoana (@sewelankoana) January 11, 2023