Whether it’s poking fun at herself and the things she has come to be known for or commenting on social issues by making light of them, actress and reality star Khanyi Mbau is a fan of using humour to connect with fans.She recently tackled the subject of ubungoma (being a sangoma) by trying to make a connection between anxiety and mental health in general with the rise in popularity of ubungoma and the resultant rise in the number of people announcing that they had undergone the necessary training to become sangomas or traditional healers of different kinds.  “You don’t have a calling, it’s anxiety,” began Khanyi Mbau on her Instagram stories.  “This is the most anxious generation. That’s why we have so many sangomas,” she continues.  “Urban sangomas,” she called them.   She further advised that they learn to laugh off the reality of living with anxiety and rest assured in the fact that they aren’t the only ones living with it.  “Just get magnesium and a bit of sun, B12 and have sea moss. That’s the only sea you need.”  She went on to state that she was not attacking anyone and said her only aim was to help people save money.  “Stop buying cows, chickens and goats instead of buying melatonin to help you sleep and to boost your serotonin so your mood is better. Magnesium tabs and lots of B12, you can be your own healer,” she wrote.  Not only did Khanyi spark debate, dividing those who supported what she said from those who opposed it on the grounds that it was un-African, she also upset a lot of prominent figures who had accepted their calling to become sangomas. ALSO READ:  Sangoma healing with kindness: Get guidance in new year One of the people who commented on what she had to say was musician, Phelo Bala who told Moja Love news site, Zimoja, “It’s not something you wake up to one morning and decide to pursue. It’s not a joke, it’s real life. I don’t think if I had a choice, I would choose to be a sangoma…  “Why would anyone fake something so challenging and demanding? Having this gift means you have to deal with yourself, your mental wellness and go on these intense programes to understand what you have. So, I doubt being a sangoma can ever be a fashion statement,” he added.  Taking to social media this week, Dineo Ranaka also seemed to weigh in on the discussion.  She posted pictures of herself spinning the decks in her traditional garb and wrote:  “Umuntu ongakaze angene ephehlweni [Someone who hasn’t entered the fold] will have a lot to say about what they don’t know. Likewise, a person who has never walked a day in your shoes will have tons of advice on how you should tie your laces,” she began.  “Live as you are guided. Do as you know is good for your soul. Thokozani modern sangomas, healers and those in the process of their own healing. Thokozani nonke with anxiety and lean to the calming cradle of spirituality for healing. Thokozani those that mock what they cannot comprehend. Thokozani modern-day uncertified psychologists that get a great portion of their partial teachings from TikTok (hehehe yah neh), Thokozani nani Twitter psychologists and herbalists. Thokozani nina that are fascinated, intrigued and eager to understand and respect the journeys of others without judgement or disgust,” she added, with many of her comments thought to be direct jabs at Khanyi Mbau.  She concluded by requisition: “May we all try have less opinions over the fingerprints of others as they are ALL uniquely designed. The tongue has proven to be the downfall of many a man”. READ NEXT: Fake sangoma scams woman out of R400K