Dar es Salaam. The East and Central Africa Institutional Investors Forum, to be held in Zanzibar next month, aims to strengthen and sustain partnerships between local and foreign investors, The Citizen has established. The two-day event, scheduled to begin on February 22nd, will bring together stakeholders to discuss various issues related to contributing to the sustainable economic development of the East and Central Africa region by attracting new investment and maximising its impact on the economy.  Tanzania Chamber of Commerce, Industry and Agriculture (TCCIA) Executive Director Nebart Mwapwele said the forum will open doors for partnerships on a win-win basis and provide room for knowledge sharing and technological transfer. “I am optimistic that local and foreign investors will forge partnerships that will lead to the improvement in production and sales of the products,” Mr Mwapwele told The Citizen.  Confederation of Tanzania Industries (CTI) Director of Policy and Advocacy, Akida Mnyenyelwa, said he is positive that Tanzania will use the forum to market its investment opportunities. “We expect Tanzania to open up more opportunities for investment for both local and foreign investors.” Mr Mnyenyelwa said this should go in tandem with the announcement of incentives to attract investors to Tanzania.  Tanzania has been selected to host the conference as it is an increasingly popular investment destination demonstrating high-growth, according to MNCapital Group, a South Africa-based investment firm organising the event. The firm went further to say that the country is politically stable and has put in place various incentives to promote investment.  According to the Tanzania Investment Centre, some of the lucrative sectors that offer investment prospects in the country include agriculture, livestock, manufacturing, economic infrastructure, mining, tourism, health, education, ICT, and aquaculture development.  MNCapital Group CEO Michael Ndinisa said the conference will present opportunities for institutional investors to have a social impact in addition to achieving the desired return on investment.