Current Springbok captain Siya Kolisi said he hopes his documentary Rise, the Siya Kolisi Story will inspire all South Africans irrespective of race, creed or colour. Kolisi who will be leaving the Sharks and South Africa at the end of the season spoke to The Citizen about his new partnership with Lenovo, helping people and making a difference. He will soon be playing rugby for Racing 92 in France. Siya said Rise, the Siya Kolisi Story will be launched this coming weekend. “I’m only sharing my story hoping that people get to learn from the mistakes that I have made and also inspire and encourage them.” “My story is the story of millions of South Africans and I hope that even if it’s one or two people it inspires or kids who come from similar circumstances,” Kolisi said. ALSO READ: WATCH: Bok skipper Kolisi’s inspirational address to SA20 team, Paarl Royals Kolisi said his partnership with Lenovo helps him communicate with his wife Rachel and their children while he is away on rugby tours. Kolisi added that he never grew up with technology and that he wants to make it accessible to the remotest of areas.   “Where I come from we never had technology, we only had a TV for a couple of years and kids in the township still don’t have that.” “Lenovo is all for making sure that they want to level the playing ground like I do. We share the same programmes in making sure that everybody has access to technology and technology makes life so much simpler and you live much smarter with technology,” he said. Kolisi will lead the Springboks as they try defend their title at the Rugby World Cup in France later this year. There are, however, many South Africans who will not be able to watch the matches because they don’t have a pay-TV subscription or internet connection. “There’s a lot of homes that do not have internet and can’t afford to watch rugby because rugby is only shown on the channels that you have pay for,” Kolisi said. Kolisi said despite the challenges, South Africa is a great country and people should be looking out for each other and spreading ubuntu. “That’s what many people have forgotten in this day and age. Just being a good human being and realising that if I am doing well and my neighbour is struggling, that means I am not doing well until my neighbour heals.” “We are all about ourselves, becoming selfish people. We all have a role to play, no matter where we are, share words of encouragement and show love to the kids,” Kolisi said. Kolisi also urged people to share positive and amazing stories that should be told in this beautiful country.    ALSO READ: PICS: Rachel Kolisi’s chic new hairstyle, her first big haircut in 18 years