In today’s digital age, we use mobile apps for business, to communicate, to entertain ourselves and everything in between. Unfortunately, not all Android apps are trustworthy. Some apps, specifically those with activity-tracking features, are loaded with malware and could end up compromising users’ safety. Cybersecurity company Dr Web[1] recently flagged several Android apps as being ‘ad junkies’ – apps used by developers to flood users with advertisements. While these apps don’t seem like outright threats, developers have found new and sneaky ways to con users out of their hard-earned money. Here are some of the dangerous apps you need to avoid, and how to protect your data (and your money). When it comes to ad-junkie apps, users will at times be requested to watch ads before unlocking certain features within the app. In most cases, these are pretty much harmless – they may be packed full of adverts and put ad revenue in developers’ pockets, but users are not necessarily at the risk. While this is standard practice with most apps, several Android apps have been flagged by Dr Web for going beyond standard practice, skirting the edges of illegal activity. The three apps flagged in a recent audit – Lucky Habit, Walking Joy and Lucky Step – are all available on the Google Play Store, and all connect to the same command centre. For starters, Lucky Step (a walking tracker) promises to pay users for walking. When users accept the offer, they are then lured into watching even more ads. Some users were also informed that they could “speed up” the withdrawal process by watching – yes, you guessed it – even more ads. The more ads they make users watch, the more money the developers make, while promising monetary rewards which will likely never materialise. ALSO READ: How to properly delete all your personal data before selling your smartphone And providing your payment- or app-wallet details is a whole other can of worms which could open you up to even more threats.  Dr Web explains: “The Android apps did not verify any of the payment-related data provided by users, so the chances of receiving any of the money promised from these apps are extremely small”. The best way to protect yourself against dangerous apps is to take proactive measures to avoid malware, bloatware and other threats. Here’s how: Avoid downloading apps from third-party app stores or untrusted websites. But that said, even the ‘trusted sources’ are open to attacks and other forms of cyber crime. Even though Google Play Store, Apple App Store and Huawei Mobiles Services are the most reliable stores, you would still need to do a bit of research before hitting that download button. [2] Check who the app’s developers are and go through the review sections to see if any red flags pop up. It cannot be stressed enough but this is one of the steps most often overlooked. No one really reads the app permission before clicking ‘Allow’. Take a few seconds to review what exactly the app is attempting to access on your phone – you don’t want your banking information accessible from some dark corner on the internet, do you? Sensitive information to be wary of includes access to contacts, location, camera and microphone. Regularly update your apps when prompted by your app store of choice to do so. Trusted developers constantly update and improve their apps. These app updates contain security patches and bug fixes to address vulnerabilities and any other previous system flaws or weaknesses. NOW READ: LastPass data breach: Hackers copied your password vault and personal info Source:  [1] Dr Web audit report[2] Boston University