The South African Weather Service (SAWS) has forecasted warm to hot conditions in Limpopo, North West, Free State and Northern Cape on Tuesday.  According to the weather service, isolated thundershowers can also be expected in Gauteng, Mpumalanga, Limpopo and KwaZulu-Natal.  Northern Cape Tomorrow ‘s Weather overview: 3.1.2023 pic.twitter.com/qXrzpo6Lum— SA Weather Service (@SAWeatherServic) January 2, 2023 Gauteng: Partly cloudy and warm with isolated showers and thundershowers. Mpumalanga: Cloudy with morning fog along the escarpment, otherwise partly cloudy and warm with isolated showers and thundershowers but scattered over the escarpment and eastern Highveld areas. Limpopo: Partly cloudy and warm to hot with isolated showers and thundershowers except in the Limpopo Valley. North West: Partly cloudy and warm to hot, with isolated showers and thundershowers. Free State: Partly cloudy and warm to hot, with scattered showers and thundershowers, but isolated in the north. Northern Cape: Cloudy along the coast with morning fog, otherwise fine and warm to hot, but very hot in the north, becoming partly cloudy with isolated showers and thundershowers in the east from the afternoon, but scattered in the south-east. The wind along the coast will be light to moderate north-westerly to westerly. Western Cape: Very hot to extremely hot in the east, otherwise partly cloudy and warm to hot with isolated showers and thundershowers in the north-east, but fine over the central parts. Light rain is expected in places along the coast and adjacent interior in the evening. The wind along the coast will be light to moderate northerly to north-westerly along the west coast, otherwise south-westerly. The expected UVB sunburn index: Extreme. Western half of the Eastern Cape: Fine and hot to very hot, becoming partly cloudy with isolated showers and thundershowers over interior and northern parts in the afternoon. The wind along the coast will be moderate to fresh north-easterly, becoming south westerly in the evening. Eastern half of the Eastern Cape: Fine and warm to hot, becoming partly cloudy with scattered showers and thundershowers in the afternoon, but isolated in the extreme west. The wind along the coast will be moderate to fresh north-easterly. KwaZulu-Natal: Partly cloudy and warm with scattered showers and thundershowers in the west, otherwise isolated except in the north-east. The wind along the coast will be moderate to fresh easterly to north-easterly. The expected UVB sunburn index: Extreme. ALSO READ: Fine and warm weather conditions expected throughout SA