Ten people have been arrested in connection with a robbery at humanitarian organisation Gift of the Givers office in Cape Town. Criminals broke into the Athlone office on the Cape Flats, on Monday, and stole a number of items meant for people in need. Gift of the Givers project manager Ali Sablay said staff members knew something was untoward when the main door of the building was left open. “The robbers took appliances and donations meant for people in distress.” The robbery has been condemned from all quarters across South Africa. Police spokesperson, FC van Wyk, said the flying squad, K9 Unit and other law enforcement agencies received a tip-off about the stolen property being kept at a facility in Hanover Park. “A case was reported at Lansdowne SAPS. Upon searching the identified premises, stolen property was recovered which was identified by a representative of the organisation as their property taken during the commission of the said crime. “Ten suspects (males and females), aged between 20 and 40, were arrested for possession of suspected stolen property and detained at Philippi SAPS for further investigation,” he said. ALSO READ: Gift of the Givers responds to Boksburg gas tanker explosion Van Wyk said the community was applauded for assisting law enforcement official to bring the perpetrators to book. “The members were thanked for their good work and working relationship with other law enforcement agencies.” “Community involvement is pivotal in the fight against crime, and they were also thanked for their cooperation and willingness to provide the necessary information that led to the arrest of the suspects,” he said. Gift of the Givers have bene phenomenal in their efforts to assist those in need. The NGO has had a busy start to 2023 assisting multiple communities in Cape Town after several devastating fires. Last month, Gift of the Givers came to the aid of the families of the victims killed and those who were injured in the Boksburg gas tanker explosion. At least 38 other people, including six firefighters, were reported to have been injured after the gas tanker got stuck under a bridge, caught fire and exploded as firefighters were busy extinguishing the flames. Meanwhile, Gift of the Givers founder Dr Imtiaz Sooliman was selected as the “Person of the Year” by Afrikaans magazine, Vrye Weekblad. This came as no surprise as Dr Sooliman and the NGO he leads continues its humanitarian efforts to assist those who are in need. ALSO READ: Gift of the Givers’ Dr Imtiaz Sooliman honoured as ‘Person of the Year’