Dar es Salaam. Mainland Tanzania Premier League teams’ January transfer window has impressed several football tacticians in the country. The window for players registration concluded on January 15, and only Kagera Sugar did not recruit any players during the period. Kennedy Mwaisabula, a well-known football commentator in the country, told The Citizen yesterday that coaches have worked hard to get players who they believe will benefit their teams in the ongoing NBC Premier League. Mwaisabula stated that many prospective players have been featured in many teams competing in the league, and that a beneficial impact has been witnessed for Polisi Tanzania after their victory over Namungo FC. “Polisi Tanzania’s new signing Mayala Henock from DR Congo’s SM Sanga Balende lifted the team and won the third match since the league’s inception last year; there is an influence in the workouts when compared to the previous,” said Mwaisabula. Mwaisabula added that Simba and Yanga, Tanzania’s representatives in continental club competitions including the CAF Champions League and Confederation Cup, have signed players carefully. Simba has signed Saido Ntibanzokiza from Geita Gold FC, Jean Baleke from Nejmeh FC in Lebanon, Ismail Sawadogo from Difaa El Jadidi, and Mlandege’s Mohamed Mussa. Yanga, who will participate in the CAF Co-Federation Cup, have signed Kennedy Musonda from the Zambian Power Dynamos, Mamadou Doumbia from the Stade Malien in Mali, Mudathir Yahya on a free transfer and Metacha Mnata from Singida Big Stars. The head coach of Ruvu Shooting, Mbwana Makata, expressed confidence in the new players’ ability to help the team progress because the practise was tailored to their requirements. “Many teams completed the exercise with vigour. Atupele Green and Evalijestus Mujwahuki are the candidates we have chosen because we think they would perform the best,” added Makata. According to KMC head coach Theiry Hitimana, the addition of striker Deogratius Kulwa from Mwanza’s Pamba will help the team’s offensive firepower. Hitimana stated: “We have purposefully and not inadvertently recruited guys.” He claimed that Sadala Lipangila was required to fill the role because Matheo Anthony is currently recovering from his injuries.