Two of South Africa’s most successful entrepreneurs tied the knot in what one can only be described as one of the most extravagant weddings, in Bali, Indonesia recently. Philanthropist and entrepreneur Bahle Zondo, who is the president of Amahle Benefits Scheme and founder and chairman of Bahle Zondo Foundation, and Icebolethu Group founder Nomfundo Mcoyi hosted 120 of their South African friends and family at their lavish wedding ceremony and reception on the Indonesian island. The couple exchanged their vows at the The Apurva Kempinski Bali Hotel with an all-white wedding theme. The chapel where the couple said their vows is inspired by the architecture of a traditional Sulawesi house. This build, with soaring bamboo trunks, marble floor and a large glass front, lightens the building and enables a wonderful ocean view during the ceremony. The stunning venue was decorated with white roses and flower bouquets placed throughout the space and lining the aisle.  Six young ballerinas preceded the bride into the chapel, giving a beautiful performance before the bride glided down the aisle, a vision in white. The reception venue was also adorned from floor to ceiling in thousands of white roses and other white flowers. Intricate flower arches put together from various white roses and flowers were also strategically placed throughout the venue. A beautiful chandelier made from flowers hung over the dance floor to complete the fairy tale look of the wedding. Outside on the sprawling green lawns white chairs and beautiful detailed white umbrellas offered guests reprieve from the warm island sun. While the bride was the star of the event, the wedding cake had many guests gushing in awe when it floated towards the bride and groom. The five-tier white wedding cake, decorated with hundreds of white flowers, was placed on a battery-operated surface, which glided all the way to the happy couple as Zondo held his new wife in his arms. The wedding reception included live performances and even fireworks to entertain guests. ALSO READ: EXCLUSIVE: ‘I looked my husband in the eyes for the first time on our wedding day’ – Magdalene Moonsamy