Being prepared can help you to get your first job or find a new job in a market flooded with candidates searching for new roles. Employers looking for staff to fill positions also have to review how they look for candidates. The job-hunting landscape is fierce and global HR experts Remote made a list of what jobhunters and employers need to know ahead of the new year in terms of recruitment, such as knowing what you want and do not want out of a new job, giving your CV a makeover, engaging in some networking and setting realistic goals. “Job hunting can be difficult and it is even more difficult if you do not know exactly what you are looking for,” says Nadia Vatalidis, VP of People at Remote. Before you dive into applying for jobs, take some time to figure out what you want from your new role.  Put together a list of positions and companies that interest you and take note of why these caught your eye, to help you narrow down your options and find the right role. ALSO READ: SA employers aiming for 6.1% salary increases to compete for staff Vatalidis says job hunters should also be aware of what they do not want.  “Consider what made you want to leave your current or previous role. Was it a lack of progression or promotion? Or did your life/work balance suffer? Is it just time for something new and more challenging?” Whatever it is, knowing what you dislike about your current or previous job will help you pinpoint your priorities for the next one.  Prepare a list of dealbreakers and use this to narrow down the roles you consider. If you make it through to interview stage, ask your point of contact to clarify any uncertainty you may have. Also read: Six simple ways to update your CV according to an expert It is always a good idea to tailor your CV to the role you apply for, especially if you have not updated it in a while. Vatalidis says you should make the most of it by detailing all your most relevant experience and accomplishments, and get rid of any information that no longer needs to be there. It is also useful to ask someone you trust to go through and check for any spelling or grammatical errors. “Reshape your CV to focus on quantifiable value. Demonstrate your experience in performance terms and list the results you achieved that are relevant to your target role.” It is also important to remember to keep things concise and skimmable. Keep the length to two pages as that should be enough to convey the most important information to a recruiter or hiring manager. ALSO READ: Tips for looking after your digital well-being when returning to work There is still power in networking and it is the way to get ahead in 2023. If you have not already, update your LinkedIn and social media profiles and aim to make meaningful connections. “Whether it is an ex-classmate from university who now works at your dream company or a more experienced colleague who can give you tips to progress, there are plenty of people out there who will be happy to help you reach your career goals.” If you have a shortlist of target companies you would love to work for, try to find a connection who has worked there previously or is currently there, says Vatalidis says. Speak to someone on the inside to get an understanding of the roles available and what is expected from top candidates. Job hunters should ensure that their career goals are realistic and achievable, she says.  “Having ambitious long-term goals is great but setting yourself some shorter-term goals that you can realistically achieve within the year is also a good idea.” If, for example, your long-term goal is to go freelance, you may want to focus on gaining relevant experience for now and aim to build up your portfolio as much as possible. ALSO READ: Hunting for a job? Here are 4 qualities a hiring manager looks for “The start of the new year is a popular hiring period for businesses and therefore, it is vital for employers to have an intentional recruitment plan in place. Business owners should consider their company’s needs, as well as the kind of job applicants they want to attract.” She advises recruiters to start with a process designed to recruit for a value match to foster a strong company culture. To attract talent in such a competitive job market, it is more important than ever to be honest and transparent Vatalidis says. “Include salary information and employee benefits in the job listing and be upfront about exactly who and what you are looking for. If you can offer flexible working conditions, emphasise this as an incentive as many top performers are actively seeking roles with more autonomy and life/work balance.” Companies may also want to consider filling positions on a global scale to widen the pool of applicants further and open up to the best worldwide talent, she says, as this will also offer a fresh perspective for your business, in line with a fresh start for the new year.