Tanzania is a land of contrasts, where beauty and chaos coexist in equal measure. As a nation, we are blessed with an abundance of natural resources, a rich cultural heritage, and a diverse population. We love it here but have no illusion that life here is a comedy of errors. Recently, I had the opportunity to visit Arusha, a city that holds a special place in my heart as I spent a significant portion of my life there. As my colleagues and I were being picked up from our hotel, I was crudely reminded of what life often is in Tanzania. The driver, who was to take us to our destination, chose to enter the wrong side of the highway, where he drove for a considerable distance before finally emerging onto the right side. While I could not help but be filled with fear as the driver negotiated his way against oncoming traffic as if it were a normal thing, it was a stark reminder of what we often go through here. There appears to be a ubiquitous disregard for any form of order or established standards. Corollary to that, the idea that everything is up for negotiation, even at the expense of others, is quite prevalent across many aspects of our daily lives. Years ago, I had the misfortune of studying at the University of Dar es Salaam. The university has a proud history, and I know that many are extremely proud to have passed through its ranks. I am not one of them. When I joined the university, Mabibo Hostel had just been opened. By any standard, the hostel was quite decent then. The designers had the right idea: nice blocks, kitchens, toilets, and landscapes with pathways for students to walk on. But this is Tanzania—the taps ran dry, the toilets unsanitary, and the students ignored the pathways, creating their own shortcuts through the landscape. Excellent modernistic hardware aside, the Tanzanian cultural software resulted in years of misery for some of us. One can learn a lot about a society by observing how its elite institutions function. Whenever I reflect on my experiences at Mlimani I say ‘God have mercy on us’. Today, considering the way our public transportation is operated, the way our houses are built, the way our neighbourhoods are organised, or the way garbage is recklessly strewn about in our streets, it is evident that when left to their own devices, Tanzanians would readily choose anarchy, showing little regard for the well-being of others or the society at large. A report from 2014 revealed the dire consequences of this attitude, as it showed that 66,000 elephants were killed in Tanzania in the previous five years. Those were massacres on an industrial scale, committed by people who can hardly be called human. But they knew that they could get away with it. And they did. It is stuff like this that makes nations float through history without any purpose or direction. But that should not be so. Nations require non-negotiable principles to keep them grounded. The penalty for violations must be severe indeed, including death. I think President Magufuli had the right idea here. He understood that for a nation to function properly, there must be non-negotiables. Similarly, during his time, people at all levels understood that actions had consequences too. Given the prevalent poverty in our society, if we want to change the situation, we must draw a line in the sand today and make it clear that we will not play around with development. That said, non-negotiables should not be confused with abuse of rule of law. Having non-negotiables implies a commitment to live by a set of fundamental principles which cannot be compromised. That is not synonymous with dictatorship. As a way forward, I propose that one of the non-negotiables for Tanzania should be ‘a Tanzania that works for Tanzanians first’. That may sound commonsensical, but it is shocking how often it is ignored. Africa is the only continent where foreigners have it better than Africans. Foreigners come, extract value, and then leave the people to bear the burden of servicing national debts. That madness needs to end. The proposed principle is geared to guide all our actions, from the way we design projects, to the laws we set, to the leaders we elect – to ensure that the well-being of the people comes first. It is said that there were at least 60,000 Chinese nationals living in Tanzania at the end of the Kikwete regime but Magufuli reduced the number to about 10,000. While I have argued for the heterogenisation of Tanzanian culture before, allowing others to export—in Hollywood terms—their losers to our country is highly undesirable. Immigration must ensure that only those who can contribute in a special way remain. The famous quote from Mario Puzo’s The Godfather, “It’s not personal, it’s strictly business,” has often been used to justify inconsiderate decisions. However, as Michael Corleone’s actions in the story illustrated, business is usually deeply personal. When my family lacks access to clean water, when I am unable to work for lack of electricity, or when I am uncertain about the quality of education my children get, that is quite personal. Life is not a series of negotiable transactions, it is full of deeply felt personal experiences that profoundly affect our well-being. That is why we must strive to build a nation that is anchored in the principles that prioritise the well-being of all our people. That is how we will build a nation worthy of the name Tanzania.