Stormers head coach John Dobson admits that the red cards picked up by hosts London Irish in their Champions Cup clash at the Brentford Community Stadium on Sunday changed the complexion of the game and that his side were really poor in adjusting to that. The Stormers clinched a bonus point 28-14 win in the end, but after the hosts were reduced to 13-men in the 41st minute with their second red card of the game, the visitors who were leading 21-0 at that stage could only add one more converted try over the final 39 minutes, while conceding two. ALSO READ: Stormers to continue learning as focus shifts to Champions Cup Although it was a disappointing second half performance, Dobson was happy with the result which was the most important thing in the end. “The cards changed the shape of the game. I thought in the first half it was looking like a pretty good game and I was happy with where we were. It was two teams who wanted to play good rugby going at each other,” explained Dobson after the match. “But as often happens in rugby, when the numbers get reduced the whole game changes. We were really poor in (adjusting to) that. London Irish (managed to) keep the ball, put us under pressure and forced us into ill-discipline and mistakes. “It probably wasn’t the product we wanted for growing rugby and South African participation in the competition. But for the outcome we will take it every day of the week because London Irish is a really good side.” Both red cards were deserved, the first to fullback Ben Loader who was upright in a tackle on flyhalf Manie Libbok, which ended in a head clash and the Springbok pivot going off for concussion, which Dobson claimed would likely rule him out of the coming weekend’s match against Clermont. The second was to prop Ciaran Parker who flew into a ruck shoulder first, connecting with Stormers flank Deon Fourie who was trying to steal the ball. “I would differentiate Ben Loader’s thing, which happens at high speed than (Parker’s), where Deon Fourie got hit,” said Dobson. “I do feel strongly that the ‘jackalers’ contesting for the ball must be protected from leading shoulders and that sort of thing. “That’s really controllable. But we’ve got a greyer area in what we call ‘traditional’ rugby collisions. Of course, you can’t have a Springbok flyhalf going off concussed and I’m sure it’s a red card.”