A 45-year-old security company owner has been arrested by the Hawks after being found in possession of hijacked vehicles that were allegedly used in an attempted cash-in-transit (CIT) robbery on Tuesday. The Hawks said they believe the vehicles were used in the attempted cash-in-transit robbery that took place on Tuesday near Boipatong, Gauteng. It is understood a G4S armoured vehicle was travelling on Frikkie Meyer Street when it was rammed from behind twice by a charcoal Mercedes-Benz. Hawks spokesperson Captain Lloyd Ramovha said the driver then veered off the road into the nearby bushes. “Shots were allegedly fired at the armoured truck. A group of armed suspects surrounded the stuck truck and instructed the guards to alight. The guards were disarmed of their firearms. The suspects then tried to blow up the armoured vehicle with explosives without success.” “They sped away from the scene empty-handed using several vehicles,” he said. ALSO READ: Father pleads for the safe return of missing wife and 4-year-old son Ramovha said the Hawks swooped in on the suspects at an address along Fowler Street in Vanderbijlpark on Thursday afternoon. “Two of the vehicles, a white Audi A3 and blue Hyundai Tucson, suspected to have been used as getaway vehicles were recovered from the address. Further investigation led to the confiscation of six 9mm pistols, bullet-proof jackets and reflective jackets.” Ramovha said the 45-year-old man was arrested and is expected to appear in the Vanderbijlpark Magistrate’s Court on Friday. The Gauteng Provincial Head of the Hawks Major General Ebrahim Kadwa welcomed the arrest and applauded the investigation team. Meanwhile, police have launched a manhunt following a cash-in-transit heist along the N12 highway in the North West on Thursday. It is understood robbers travelling in a four-vehicle convoy rammed into a van transporting cash on its way to Wolmaransstad from Kleksdorp. Using explosives, the suspects made off with an undisclosed amount of money. Provincial police spokesperson Athlenda Mathe said suspects also made off with firearms belonging to the Fidelity guards. ALSO READ: Six robbery and carjacking suspects nabbed in Groblersdal