Cape Town City left back Lyle Lakay is adamant his team can upset Orlando Pirates in a DStv Premiership encounter in the Mother City today.  ALSO READ: New Pirates striker coach feels welcomed by the club City and Pirates meet at the Cape Town Stadium with both heading into this game after registering loses intheir previous games. The Buccaneers lost 2-0 to Mamelodi Sundowns, while City were edged 1-0 by SuperSport United. Lakay, who is on loan from Sundowns, admits that City have struggled in this campaign. However, they are now looking to make things right, starting with the Sea Robbers, having done thorough preparation for the match. “Things are okay, but I would say (it has been) a roller-coaster in terms of results. I think we are heading in the right direction with the energy, the preparation, it is just the results that have not been going our way, but we will fix it,” said the Cape Town City player, in a video released by the club.  “Preparations are good, we are doing our analysis on Pirates which is good. The coach (Eric Tinkler) has obviously done the analysis on the previous game. We will take it from there and prepare. But, they are in the City, so we are going out for three points and at the end of the day, we need three points.”  Lakay and his  City teammates might be confident of getting a good result since they are playing at home against the Buccaneers, but they should be well aware of the danger that Pirates possess.  Despite coming into this match on the back of a defeat to Sundowns, Jose Riveiro’s Bucs are capable of getting a good result from anywhere they play. Pirates are desperate for points in order to be counted among  the title contenders – heading into this weekend’s matches the club were trailing Downs by 15 points, with the Soweto giants sitting in fifth on the table with 19 points.  City, meanwhile, are down in 11th place after registering 16 points, which is also a motivation for them to get a victory and start moving up the league standings.