Kaizer Chiefs will not be serving any bans from Fifa for now and they have fulfilled their side of the bargain to Chicken Inn.  ALSO READ: Hunt’s tip to punters: Don’t bother betting on PSL teams This was confirmed by the Zimbabwean side after news of Chiefs’ possible transfer ban broke earlier this week.  According to a Fifa ruling, Chiefs would be banned from participating in the transfer market for three consecutive windows had they not fulfilled their obligations to Chicken Inn.  This was resultant of a Chicken Inn claim to Fifa for non payment by Chiefs after the transfer of former player Teenage Hadebe.  Chicken Inn put a clause on their sale agreement with Chiefs stipulating that if Hadebe was sold on, they would get a percentage from the proceeds.  Chiefs moved quickly on Monday to dispel the reports saying they were flawed and misleading. “Kaizer Chiefs note the reports that are making rounds relating to the transfer of Teenage Hadebe,” read the Chiefs statement. “Some news reports say: ‘initially, indications are that Hadebe joined the Turkey club as a free agent. However, it was unearthed that the Arthur Zwane coached-side indeed sold him, albeit for an undisclosed fee’ “The club would like to categorically dismiss the reports as flawed and misleading. Kaizer Chiefs have fulfilled all the obligations in the transfer of Hadebe.” ALSO READ: Chiefs deny reports they are facing another transfer ban And Chicken Inn boss Tavengwa Hara has confirmed to Far Post that Chiefs indeed came through with the payment. “I can confirm that Kaizer Chiefs have fulfilled their side of the bargain. The delays were by the Turkey club.  “We paid each other through FIFA, so the matter is resolved,” Hara is quoted as saying in the report. The Fifa ruling had stipulated that Chiefs should pay Chicken Inn an amount just over R200 000 at a stipulated time.  Had the matter not been settled amicably,  it would have been Amakhosi’s second ban after they served a two window transfer ban a few years ago.  This was after they were found to have not followed proper procedures in their capture of Malagasy star Arohasina Andrianamarinana.