The Lions are looking forward to their final week of a long four-week European tour as they prepare for their United Rugby Championship (URC) clash against Connacht at the Sportsground in Galway on Saturday night. It has been a proper four week tour crossing Europe and the UK for the Lions with them starting with a loss against Munster in Cork in early January, before traveling to Paris where they went down to Stade Francais, and then moving on to Ystrad Mynach in Wales where they defeated the Dragons. ALSO READ: Home ties and away challenges as all SA sides make European knockouts They now find themselves back in Ireland to take on hosts Connacht, before they head back to South Africa. “We are looking forward to week four on tour. We have a full day of travel on Monday and then a short preparation week,” said Lions coach Ivan van Rooyen. “Everyone knows how extremely tough Connacht is at home. It provides a great opportunity for us as a group to test ourselves once more.” The Lions will head into the Connacht match with some confidence, having broken a four game losing streak with their Challenge Cup win over the Dragons on Sunday. The visitors were on course for an emphatic win, leading 30-5 early in the second half, before the hosts staged a massive comeback that almost saw them steal the win at the death, with the final score 30-25. The Lions reward for finishing in the top half of their Challenge Cup pool is a home tie against French powerhouse Racing 92, who reached the semifinals of the premier Champions Cup last season, but this season missed out on the last 16, dropping into the second division Challenge Cup. ALSO READ: SA teams have turned Champions Cup ‘upside down’, says Toulouse coach “We are obviously happy with the result, especially on week three, which is normally mentally the toughest week on tour. I’m also happy with the way the team reacted and adapted after the late venue change,” explained Van Rooyen. “The second half was again a situation where we conceded penalties while also struggling to gain territory dominance. These are areas where we will keep looking for solutions on how to get the momentum back in our favour. “But we are extremely excited to play in the round of 16 against one of the original European power houses at home.”