Ace trainer Justin Snaith got flak a while back when photos of him riding a horse through the shallows of Muizenberg Beach were splashed in the media. His crime? Not wearing a helmet – according to health-and-safety-conscious folk among us. Snaith Racing are masters at branding and promotion – of both their stable and the sport of horse racing – and were quick to notice how the sight of magnificent thoroughbreds frolicking in the cool waters of the Atlantic, against a backdrop of lovely mountains, induced swoons. Regular weekly beach visits for sand gallops and wading – a nice outing away from the Snaith stable complex in Philippi – soon became a monthly must for valued owners, and later an annual media and celebs day at Cape Town Met time. The horses love their beach trips, looking calm yet alert and curious, kicking up water, rolling in the sand.  A particular seal has been there to greet the equine beachgoers, every week for the past several years, barking out a greeting as the truck pulls in. Altogether it’s a happy, blissful scene – except to people worried about Justin in a golf cap. The former champion trainer is a good equestrian, having ridden work from a young age and been a top polo player, but he got the message. Nowadays, onto his noggin he plonks an old polo helmet as he swings into the saddle of his horse of the moment. On social media this week, there was an eye-catching pic of Justin at this week’s annual Muizenberg Met bash, aboard Jet Dark, a 9-2 shot for the big race at Kenilworth on Saturday. Justin, tatty green polo lid in place, exhibited a fine seat on the five-year-old bay, hands low, back straight, head steady. Let’s hope bare feet don’t offend. Most importantly, though, the former champion trainer declared Jet Dark “floated” over the beach in this all-important prep gallop. The horse looked muscled, neck arched, mane electrically charged. It was enough for me to make the son of Trippi one of my leading fancies for the 2000m WSB Met, Cape Town’s premier horse race. ALSO READ:  The memory of Jamaica is music to the ears Jet Dark’s form is also compelling. He was a fast-finishing third in the sensational finish to the King’s Plate, just behind Al Muthana and Charles Dickens. He won his seasonal debut in the Cape Mile in November – following a break after the KwaZulu-Natal season, in which he was runner-up in the Durban July and won the Champion Stakes. This is a seriously good racehorse, in his prime, having a peak run from a good draw and partnered by red-hot Richard Fourie. Snaith Racing had a quiet King’s Plate day by their standards, but have been in resurgent form lately, which prompts one to take a look at their other runners in the race – all four of them. Warrior looks likely to be the sacrificial pacesetter, while Pomp And Power has not been at his best recently. Nexus, by contrast, is banging on the door of the winner’s circle, though might be outclassed here. That leaves eight-year-old warhorse Do It Again, a dual Durban July champ who has all the class necessary and just needs a burst of his old energy to give them all a big fright. Fitting blinkers can “sharpen up” a horse – and guess what? Do It Again tries scoops for the first time, in his 32nd start, possibly at the suggestion of jockey Bernard Fayd’Herbe, one of the shrewdest horsemen around. It’s notable that Fayd’Herbe appears to have chosen Do It Again over Ricky Maingard-trained Al Muthana, on whom he pulled off the King’s Plate coup. Snaith Racing’s Facebook page posted a brief interview with Fayd’Herbe after Do It Again’s final grass gallop this week. The veteran jock said “Wow!” of the old fella’s effort. When the seal in the Muizenberg surf was asked what he fancied for the Met, it was hard to tell if the answering bark was “Jet Dark!” or “Do It Again!” Cape Town Met (Kenilworth Race 9, 15:10)8 Do It Again, 4 Jet Dark, 5 Sparkling Water, 6 Kommetdieding, 1 Golden Ducat, 12 Al Muthana 4-1 Make It Snappy9-2 Jet Dark11-2 Kommetdieding13-2 Cousin Casey11-1 Sparkling Water20-1 Al Muthana, Universal, Rascallion33-1 Golden Ducat, Linebacker, Marina50-1 Do It Again55-1 and upwards the others