Siyethemba Sithebe may just have won his place in the Kaizer Chiefs team back after his solid performance in the Mamelodi Sundowns loss last weekend. ALSO READ: Arthur Zwane: Sinking or cooking at Kaizer Chiefs?  Sithebe came off the bench in the second half and managed to get Amakhosi going especially in attack with some enterprising passes.  It was his first appearance after a few weeks. His performance impressed Amakhosi coach Arthur Zwane but the mentor still expects more from the midfielder.  Sithebe came on in Samkelo Zwane’s place after the latter failed to get into the rhythm of the game against the well experienced Sundowns midfield.  “Samkelo did not have a good game but it was not a mistake to start him – he had a good game last week,” said Zwane of the half time changes.  “We do not want to chop and change the team. Unfortunately in this one he (Samkelo) could not come into the party. And yes, Sithebe did exactly what we expected of him.  “And we expect these kinds of performances from him going forward, not blowing hot and cold. When you look at performances of the players today (Saturday), we just have to look forward.”  Sithebe is likely to start and rekindle his midfield combinations with Yusuf Maart in the centre of the park for Chiefs when they host Royal AM on Sunday.  Zwane decried his team’s lack of ideas when in attack which he believes cost them the points against Sundowns.  He will be hoping Sithebe brings the bite needed for the team to start utilising their chances and curb the losing streak. Chiefs have lost all three games played this year. “I am equally disappointed… One thing that is letting us down right now is not taking our chances and opponents punishing us.  “That is where we are right now. We go back to the drawing board and keep training and try to be clinical in front of goal and keeping the back door shut.  “We had more chances than Sundowns but we had poor decision making. I am not going to blame the players because this is football and it is a game of mistakes.  “I hope they will learn going forward. We will look at this game and see where we went wrong and try to rectify that and move on.”