Rapper P. Diddy (real name Sean Combs) has been mercilessly mocked with a new embarrassing nickname after his girlfriend, fellow rapper Yung Miami admitted to having a certain fetish.  Billboard reports that the rapper made the admission on her REVOLT talk show Caresha Please while playing a drinking game with guest Trina.  “It say take a shot if you like golden showers — I do…” she began before adding, “It’s fun. You know when you’re drunk … you can pee on me in the shower … it just depends on how the night flowing.” Though she did not say that Diddy, 53, was the one who did that to her, viewers and fans alike assumed he had to be the one doing that as the pair had been in a relationship for some time now.  Yung Miami admits to liking golden showers in the latest episode of Caresha Please with Trina. ????@YungMiami305 @TRINArockstarr pic.twitter.com/03Ex77w9qE— Rap Alert (@rapalert6) January 20, 2023 Yung Miami (Caresha Romeka Brownlee) is a 28-year-old rapper from Miami, Florida in the United States.  She rose to prominence as part of a rap duo called The City Girls alongside J.T. (born Jatavia Shakara Johnson).  Y'all know Idgaf!— Yung Miami (@YungMiami305) January 20, 2023 The pair are signed with Quality Control Music and gained mainstream success after appearing on Drake’s chart-topping single In My Feelings. Diddy, on the other hand, is an American rapper, actor, record producer, and record executive who began his public career in the early 90s.  Their relationship is rumoured to have hit a rough patch recently after Diddy announced the birth of his newborn baby girl with a woman that is not Caresha.  The 53-year-old hip-hop mogul took to Instagram on Tuesday to unveil the pictures of his daughter, Love Sean Combs, whom he shares with Dana Tran.  Love was born on October 15 in Newport Beach, California.  “Baby Love,” Diddy wrote. Pee Diddy: "I have to use the bathroom" Yung Miami: pic.twitter.com/nbSZzBun5b— Stop the ???? (@RonnieThaGreat) January 20, 2023 According to Complex, Love is Diddy’s seventh child, following Quincy, 31, Justin, 28, King, 24, Chance, 16, and twins D’Lila and Jessie, also 16. The publication further reports that  Yung Miami revealed in an interview on Caresha Please that she knew Diddy was expecting a baby with another woman. “Did you know about that baby before October?” recent guest G Herbo asked.  After a brief pause, she laughed and said; “I did.”  “I think… When you dealing with somebody, communication is the key. It wasn’t, like, a surprise to me,” she added. Yung Miami every morning when Pee Diddy be waking up to take a piss… pic.twitter.com/OeNqR0owZ1— muliani (@MulianiEnt) January 20, 2023 Following widespread confusion among those familiar with their relationship, Diddy insisted that Yung Miami is not his “side chick.” “Never has been, never will be. She’s very important and special to me, and I don’t play about my Shawty Wop. I don’t discuss things on the internet and I will not start today,” he wrote.  “So think what you want. But know that if you do something to hurt mine, I’m gonna to come to your house and we’re gonna talk about it like human beings. LOVE.”  READ NEXT: Twitter reacts to Diddy’s split from Cassie