South Africans are in for a real treat and a few big surprises when Samsung launches its next flagship smartphones next week. The launch of the next Galaxy devices is expected to take place on 1 February, in San Francisco, California, under the theme “Wooow is Coming”. The event will be live streamed to South Africans on various platforms.   Samsung is expected to announce the Galaxy S23 lineup of smartphones during the “unpacked” event. If the company follows its established naming pattern, which we fully expect it will, that means we should see the Galaxy S23, Galaxy S23 Plus and Galaxy S23 Ultra. Those names translate into phones with size, pricing, and specs that line up with the good, better and best approach. Some of the leaks that were shared online about the new smartphones included zoom processing, low-light photography, and design details, as well as the reported release of an ISP (Image Signal Processor). ALSO READ: Samsung Galaxy S23 may get satellite communication functions South African journalists were on Wednesday given a sneak preview of the devices and actually got to handle and play with them. While the photos, specs and other features including pricing of the awesome new devices has been embargoed until next week, the smartphones are expected to be a hit with users who love photography. #SamsungUnpacked I got a sneak peak of Samsung’s new smartphones. All I can say is they are awesome, so be prepared to be “Wooow’d” “because epic nights are coming.” Next week Wednesday 1st of February 2023, it will be streamed. Don’t miss it. @SamsungMobileSA @samsung pic.twitter.com/lqeaHyHIf7— ???????????????????????? ???????????????????? (@FaizelPatel143) January 25, 2023 During the Consumer Electronics Show (CES) in Las Vegas las month, Samsung said it committed to fulfilling the promise of the connected experience. The Korean company said sustainability is about deeply integrating energy efficiency into product designs, further enhancing services like SmartThings Energy and expanding partnerships with key public and private sector partners. “The mission is to enable people to contribute to a more sustainable planet today, and for the future because realising a connected future has everything to do with creating a more sustainable tomorrow!” the company said. NOW READ: Night photography could get massive boost with Samsung Galaxy S23