Gqom hit band Big Nuz member Mandla ‘Mampintsha’ Maphumulo’s is probably turning in his grave right now knowing that his wife is reading his message exchanges with several of his side chicks. The 40-year-old musician was laid to rest at the Lala Kahle Cemetery on 30 December 2022. He died on Christmas Eve after having suffered a minor stroke the week before. Social media has been harshly criticising Mampintsha’s wife, Bongekile Maphumulo, professionally known as Babes Wodumo’s behaviour so soon after her husband’s passing. The gqom artist and choreographer performed at the Last Dance Event held in Pietermaritzburg, KwaZulu-Natal, only a day after her husband was buried. This public performance received mixed reactions from fans. While many commended Babes for getting right back on the ‘working horse’, others felt that she should take time to grieve her loss otherwise she will crash. ALSO SEE: KZN government denies it paid R50m for Mampintsha funeral A short video clip of the widow sharing that she has finally unlocked her dead husband’s phone after finding his pin code went viral on social media on Thursday. In the video clip Babes says that she has found ‘baby’s pin’, adding that her husband loved her and she won’t hold any grudges against him, she will just read what all the girls wrote him. It was widely known that Babes and Mampintsha had marital problems as depicted on Season 1 of their Showmax reality show, Uthando Lodumo.  Speaking at Mampintsha’s funeral service, Babes’ father admitted to mourners that his daughter and her husband’s marriage wasn’t perfect, but said he remains eternally grateful to Mampintsha for helping to bring his daughter into the music industry. The eThekwini Community Church in the Durban CBD, where the memorial took place, was often the scene for marital counselling between the star and his wife on Uthando Lodumo.  Babes Wodumo found Mampintsha's phone password. I hope she doesn't expose the girlfriends names ????????‍♂️#BabesWodumo pic.twitter.com/fL5bOW8G4i— Jones Mzizi (@jonesmzizi) January 4, 2023 Babes wodumo???????????? pic.twitter.com/hTUWbwbiJK— Sphesihle (@NkanyisoNtombe7) January 5, 2023 Mampintsa looking at Babes Wodumo go through his phone in heaven… ????‍♂️????‍♂️ pic.twitter.com/Ex3JuPSwLg— sandile_collin (@sandile_collin) January 4, 2023 After these babes wodumo shenanigans I'm now adding a third layer of security on my social accounts – "voice recognition" ???? julle kry fokol. #Mampintsha— Trevor K (@trevkek) January 5, 2023 Your Girlfriend who is in Mampintsha's DMz when she realizes Babes Finally has the Password#wodumo pic.twitter.com/NHqzHVn56m— The Lord Of The Wings( Lisa) Arsenal Biggest Fan???? (@WhyUfikelate) January 5, 2023