Epic Store gives away two or three free PC games every week. The cycle refreshes early Thursday and the games are yours to download, play and keep.  This week, Epic is giving away First Class Trouble, Gamedec: Definitive Edition, and Divine Knockout. First Class Trouble – developed by Invisible Walls and published by Versus Evil back in November 2021 – invites you to join forces with other players in order to survive a disaster.  Sounds easy? Maybe… Your mission, should you choose to accept it, is to shut down a deadly AI virus causing havoc on a luxury space cruise ship.  Players will have to explore new areas of the space ship by communicating and working together on tasks. Be prepared for anything, though. Some players may appear human but are, in fact, killer robots hellbent on betraying their teammates. Fun! You have until 19 January at 6pm to download First Class Trouble. Prior to this week’s deal, the game sold for R119.99. ALSO SEE: Five affordable phones with fast-charging capability Gamedec (developed and published by Anshar Studios) usually sells for R499 but you have a whole week to download it for free.  The single-player cyberpunk RPG lures you into the adventures of a detective who solves virtual crimes. That is, investigating crimes committed in virtual worlds.  These worlds blur the lines between what is ‘real’, ‘alive’ and ‘dead’ and are the birthplace of the worst of human nature: pride, envy, sloth, lust. It is set in 22nd-century Warsaw City, and the game itself is based on the short stories penned by Polish science-fiction author Marcin Przybyłek. The detectives who investigate the virtual realities (Gamedecs, if you will) explore the hidden mechanics of these worlds to find the answers.  Divine Knockout (released in October 2022 by Red Beard Games and Hi-Rez Studios) is described as a “third-person, 3D Smash-like game”.  As the name suggests, you have one job and that is to knock your opponents off the stages. Here’s your chance to show Hercules, King Arthur, Thor and other legends who’s really boss. Divine Knockout features a 3-vs-3 battle and just to keep you on your toes, the rules and goals change each round. Damage enemies to make them vulnerable, then knock them out of the arena with a mighty blow! There are 2-vs-2 and 1-on-1 fights if you’re in the mood for nothing but combat.  The base game is free, however, the starter edition goes for R69.99 while the founders’ edition has a price tag of R117.91. The ultimate edition costs R351.99. Epic Store confirmed one of the titles from next week’s freebie lineup – the adventure-typing game Epistory: Typing Chronicles. It will be available from 19 to 26 January.