The Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) has condemned Prince Harry for his “boastful” claims about killing people in the war in Afghanistan. In his memoirs to be released this week, Prince Harry reveals the number of people he killed during two tours of duty in Afghanistan, according to British media.  “My number is 25. It’s not a number that fills me with satisfaction, but nor does it embarrass me,” he wrote in the book Spare due out Tuesday. The EFF said Prince Harry’s comments were “reckless, insensitive and inhumane.” “In his personal memoirs which confirm the inherent genocidal mania which characterises the British colonial Family, Harry boasts of killing human beings in Afghanistan as if he was removing “chess pieces”, glorifying murder and reawakening the painful scars of the period of an unjustifiable war.” “The war in the Middle East which was framed as one against nuclear weapons remains unjustified because no weapons of mass destruction or terror were ever found in the region. It was a war to destabilise the political system in the Middle-East in order to extract their mineral wealth namely in this instance, oil,” the red berets said. ALSO READ: LISTEN: ‘People making a mountain out of a molehill’ over Harry and Meghan quoting her grandfather, says Ndileka Mandela The EFF said Prince Harry is seeking attention. “Harry’s gleeful reflections on his war crimes is nothing but the arrogance of a genocidal murderer, who finds joy in the senseless killing of people in order to further the imperialist agenda of stealing the wealth of third-world nations.”  “It is more alarming that the days in which Harry claims to have murdered 25 people is cited as a period that was not characterised by conflict, meaning it is more likely that the attention-seeking murderer killed innocent civilians,” the EFF said. The EFF has called for an investigation into war crimes committed in Afghanistan “In his memoirs, Harry has confirmed what the EFF has long asserted, that the British Royal Family as an institution is racist to the core. The EFF calls for the United Nations (UN) and the International Criminal Court (ICC) to commence an investigation into the war crimes committed not only by Harry, but by the United Kingdom and the United States of America in Afghanistan and across the Middle East,” the party added. Meanwhile, a senior Taliban official also slammed Prince Harry after the royal disclosed his body count, saying it was like removing “chess pieces” from a board. Anas Haqqani, a senior Taliban leader, criticised the Duke of Sussex over the remarks, saying those Harry killed were Afghans who had families. “Mr Harry! The ones you killed were not chess pieces, they were humans,” Haqqani tweeted, accusing the prince of committing “war crimes.” 1/3- Mr. Harry! The ones you killed were not chess pieces, they were humans; they had families who were waiting for their return. Among the killers of Afghans, not many have your decency to reveal their conscience and confess to their war crimes. pic.twitter.com/zjDwoDmCN1— Anas Haqqani(انس حقاني) (@AnasHaqqani313) January 6, 2023 “The truth is what you’ve said; Our innocent people were chess pieces to your soldiers, military and political leaders. Still, you were defeated in that ‘game.’ ALSO READ: Meghan Markle exclusive: There really was a fire in Archie’s nursery, albeit a small one