It may sound like too bold a statement coming from a Kaizer Chiefs player but Nkosingiphile “Mshini” Ngcobo believes they can beat Mamelodi Sundowns.  ALSO READ: Zwane set to stay put at Chiefs, at least for now Chiefs host Sundowns in a DStv Premiership match that is expected to be a thriller at FNB Stadium on Saturday at 8pm.  A general expectation based on current form is that Sundowns will have not difficulties in grabbing the three points at FNB Stadium.  Sundowns are already set for their 12th league title as they now enjoy a healthy 14 points gap atop the standings with 13 games to the end of the season. Chiefs go into Saturday’s game on the back of a heavy 4-0 loss at AmaZulu FC last weekend that left questions about their capabilities. But Ngcobo still believes that they can turn the tables and leave Sundowns wondering what monster hit them after the game.  “As soccer players we know it’s like that – sometimes you lose games,” says the attacking midfielder on the club’s website.  “But now it’s up to us to stay focused. We know what we want to do and we try to concentrate on the next match and not worry about what has already happened.  “We can learn from the mistakes and try to rectify them,” adds the 23-year-old Pietermaritzburg-born player. “We need to focus on ourselves. We know where we can hurt Sundowns and we just have to make sure that we bring our A-game because we need maximum points.”  Ngcobo also admitted that he had a slow start to the season. But no one can really blame him for that.  The youngster had to deal with the death of his father earlier this season and an assortment of injuries.  “Personally, I think I started the season slowly, but I’m getting my rhythm back and I’m constantly working hard to make sure I improve every day.”  Mshini is one of the players who coach Arthur Zwane has put his faith in, in terms of attacking play and getting goals for the side.  He packs a powerful shot on his left foot but he has not scored in a while now. This is however something he hopes to change soon.  “At training I’m starting to score more goals… so, I think that soon it (the goals) will come.”