It was a contrasting New Year’s for a jubilant Stormers team and a despondent Lions side, as the hosts closed out a stylish unbeaten year at the Cape Town Stadium with a 40-8 hammering of their South African rivals in the United Rugby Championship (URC) on Saturday night. In the first Old Year’s Eve clash between the two sides, it was the high flying Stormers, in front of an expectant home crowd, that produced the goods as they outscored the Lions six tries to one. The last team to beat the Stormers at the Cape Town Stadium was the Lions, in December 2021, however they never threatened to repeat that upset after the home side tore into a 12-0 lead after 12 minutes and took a 19-3 lead into the halftime break. Stormers coach John Dobson was absolutely thrilled with his side’s finish to the year, with them picking up a full house of 10 points from their derbies against their Highveld rivals the Bulls and Lions, with them running in 10 tries while conceding just four over the two games.  “The guys scored some great tries. Maybe once or twice we were a bit loose with the ball, but it’s New Year’s Eve, you’re in the lead and you want to entertain the crowd,” explained Dobson. “Our breakdown probably wasn’t the same standard from the last couple weeks but generally, it was a pretty good performance. I’m just pleased we scored some tries and built on those from last week. It would’ve been horrible to come here and win 9-6 in a drudge. ALSO READ: URC result: It was meant to be close but Sharks destroy Bulls 47-20 “To be where we are, having gone over a year (without defeat in Cape Town), these players are so resilient and keep improving.” Lions coach Ivan van Rooyen for the second week in a row had to admit that his side just wasn’t up to standard as they suffered their second heavy defeat against a South African coastal side, after they were crushed by the Sharks in Durban a week earlier. “You have to threaten on both sides of the ball, in attack and defence and I think they outplayed us in both those departments. Their attack was exceptional tonight. They kept us under pressure throughout and then with that amount of x-factor on the outside they can punish,” said Van Rooyen. “They are probably the best defensive team in the competition currently and it showed tonight. At stages we managed to put them under pressure on attack but the decision making in the final third was disappointing and we couldn’t capitalise.” The Lions and Stormers both hit the road now in a tough January period for both sides. The Lions are up against Munster this weekend, and then Connacht at the end of the month in the URC, with Challenge Cup games against the Dragons and Stade Francais in between on their four week European tour. The Stormers play two URC games away against Glasgow Warriors and Ulster, with an away Champions Cup game against London Irish, followed by a home clash against Clermont in between.