Christophe Soumillon showed a big, boisterous crowd at the 2023 WSB Cape Town Met why he is regarded as one of the best jockeys in the world – if not the best – when he stormed to victory in his first three rides on the Kenilworth card. His remaining four rides on the day finished second, third, ninth and second. ALSO READ: Jet Dark shades old rival Kommetdieding in Met thriller The lanky Belgian, a 10-time champion in France, got off the mark in Race 2 aboard the Eric Sands-trained maiden Carriacou. Then he was masterful aboard Mike de Kock-trained mare Desert Miracle in the Grade 1 Majorca Stakes, one of the most prestigious races for females in South Africa. Win No 3 came on juvenile filly Rascova, who beat off male rivals to land the Listed Summer Juvenile Stakes. In the R5-million WSB Gold Rush, his mount Dave The King just failed to overhaul Royal Aussie. Isivunguvungu was third for Soumillon in the Cape Flying Championship, Golden Ducat ninth in the Met and Nebraas second in the Western Cape Stayers. “This is an amazing moment for me!” said Soumillon after completing the hat-trick.Earlier, he mentioned that his “lucky charm” was his wife Sophie, a TV presenter and former beauty queen, accompanying him to the races. The rider has been on something of a busman’s holiday in Western Cape, doing a bit of racing while enjoying the region’s legendary tourist delights. His Cape sojourn followed a controversial incident in October at Saint Cloud in France, where he incurred a 60-day riding ban after elbowing and unseating Irish jockey Rossa Ryan during a race. The incident saw Soumillon lose his job as retained rider to famous owner the Aga Khan. The chastened jockey apologised profusely to all and sundry and paid the affected stable’s expenses for the day. Thereafter, a long holiday, thousands of kilometres away from the rumpus, seemed like a good idea. And the ace eventually ended his exile from the saddle at Kenilworth on King’s Plate day, a few weeks ago. ALSO READ: The sport of grooms comes of age with R100,000 bonus After Saturday’s Majorca triumph, Soumillon spoke of his close friendship with the De Kock team and recalled how he’d once promised them that he’d pitch up in South Africa one day and win for them. This vow was made during a successful Dubai Carnival a few years ago, when he and De Kock had teamed up “to achieve great things” – not to mention a jolly social life. “We are like family now,” he said. So warm was the family atmosphere that Soumillon blurted out: “Mike de Kock is the best trainer in the world!” A guy who’s won the Prix de la Arc de Triomphe, the Breeders’ Cup Turf and the Champions Stakes might know. There were plenty of local standouts on the day, too, with former champion trainer Justin Snaith saddling four winners, including the big race victor Jet Dark and Salvator Mundi in the Western Cape Stayers. Jockey Richard Fourie partnered all four. Owner Greg Bortz, the man who has saved Cape racing from extinction, led in two winners: Nevada King in Race 5 and Salvator Mundi. Trainer Dean Kannemeyer, jockey Keagan de Melo and the Khaya Stables of Lady Laidlaw chalked up a double – with Gimme A Prince in the Cape Flying Championship and USA’s Hope in the Race 11, The Invitational.