The Cape Town offices of Gift of the Givers were reportedly broken into and trashed, with a few items stolen on Monday. This was confirmed by Gift of the Givers project manager Ali Sablay, who told IOL the burglary was noticed by staff members after the main door of the building was left open.  “We can confirm a laptop, PC, TV and clothing were stolen. The clothing that was stolen was being packed by our team to make packs for the fire victims in the last six fires that have occurred in the Western Cape,” Sablay was quoted as saying by the publication. Sablay pleaded with the criminals to return the laptop that was stolen as it contained names of people who were registered for social assistance.  The news has left South Africans heartbroken, with many questioning why criminals would target an organisation that is “carrying the whole of South Africa on its shoulders”. While some condemned the criminals who broke into Gift of the Givers’ office, others pledged to continue supporting the organisation. “Absolute Disbelief. So sorry to read of this Gift of the Givers! Know that this will only galvanize the support we South Africans have for your organisation! This is simply a test in our journey to stay the course and continue to make a difference to those in need, despite the enemy’s effort to slow us down! Head up, shoulders back, let’s keep moving! You have our support. No matter what,” commented Yoveen Jay Hanuman of Facebook. ALSO READ: Gift of the Givers responds to Boksburg gas tanker explosion “Remember, if criminals can steal pipes that’s feeding oxygen and life support to patients in the ICU ward in a hospital. Vandalise hospital plumbing, railway line cable….etc.. then stealing from charity organisations is no different. Love to know how many schools were broken into and Vandalized during the school holidays. Really no words for this type of behaviour,” said Afzal Farhad. The humanitarian organisation is this week helping displaced residents of Phola Park in Phillipi, Cape Town and Khayelisha, following two fires. Affected residents have received hot meals, water bottles, blankets and baby care packs.  ALSO READ: UJ donates R120,000 to Gift of the Givers, here’s how you can help “Fire victims in Cape Town have pleaded for assistance with school supplies. A nationwide response will bring immense relief to parents and children caught in these distressing circumstances,” Gift of the Givers founder Dr Imtiaz Sooliman told Newzroom Afrika on Monday. He said the organisation was also seeing an increase in requests for uniforms, stationery and food packs. “Our teams have been hard at work preparing back to school packs. Our Stationary packs include all the necessary items for them to kick start their year and boost their moral.”