It’s a brand new year, and if you have your sights set on a big career move — or better yet — on landing your dream job in 2023, your CV has to be up to scratch before you can even make the first move towards reaching your goal.  If updating your CV has been on your to-do list for a while, it’s time to jump into action so you can take that exciting next step in your career. Penquin’s HR Coordinator Fundi Twala and HR Director Annemie Burger know a thing or two about what makes a CV stand out and they recently shared their insights to help make transforming yours as easy as possible. In a world of filters and editing apps, many people create entirely new versions of themselves online. “If you’re going to include a photo in your CV, the key is to have it actually looking like you, not some overly touched-up or tweaked version. This is to guarantee that any interviewer won’t have to glance down at your CV to make sure they’ve actually got the right person in the room,” advised the experts.  “A selfie is unlikely to come across as very professional, so ask someone to take a picture of you in front of a neutral background instead. You don’t have to be as formal as you would for an ID or passport photo. Be authentic, and showcase your beautiful smile for everyone to appreciate.” Every CV has to have the essential information for hiring teams not to have any questions to ask in order to establish if you are fit to interview for the role.  This includes contact information, work experience, your education (including qualifications or certifications), as well as your relevant skills. The experts from Penquin advise starting with the latest work experience and include dates, as HR teams tend to look at when you were employed and how long you stayed with the company.  The more detailed you can be without writing an essay about each, the better. If you aren’t the best writer, no sweat. Programmes like Microsoft Word and LibreOffice have built-in tools to check documents for grammar and spelling errors.  Spend time tending to the format of your CV too. ALSO READ: SA employers aiming for 6.1% salary increases to compete for staff According to the experts, using a legible font with unified spacing across signals polish and professionalism. “Double-check all of these before saving the doc as a PDF and firing off your application. Not doing so is the easiest way to get your CV placed on the rejection pile.” It’s 2023, and nobody has time to go through a ten-page CV anymore.  Getting the length of your resume spot on doesn’t mean having to cut some of your experience out. You simply need to give the most detail on your last two or three roles, which hiring teams are likely to focus on anyway. “As a whole, your CV should be punchy, written in short sentences. In the final read-through, take out any adjectives that might come off as slightly arrogant, like ‘exceptional’ [job title], or ‘world-class’ this or that, as your experience will speak for itself without having to be overinflated.” HR teams go through thousands of CVs every year.  Many applicants use a standard CV template the candidate found on Google. A bit of creative flair when it comes to design will help with making you stand out from the rest of the crowd. No matter what type of role you’re applying for, try using a modern template with colour (easy to do on a free tool like Canva). You’ll end up making an impression on the person on the receiving end, as well as injecting a bit of fun into the hiring process too. The Pequin HR team believes in two summaries that will make any CV pack a punch.  The first is a short summary of who you are. Be original with this – don’t default to what you think someone wants to hear. Instead, share what you are really good at, as well as what you are looking for in your next role and team. Next, add an executive summary on the same one-pager, detailing your experiences and achievements.  A recruiter or hiring manager might be on a tight deadline, glancing primarily at this to decide if you’re fit to interview.  Craft three to five concise sentences at most for each of the two sections. Armed with everything you need to know about creating the perfect CV, you’re ready to get editing. By the time companies hit the ground running this year, you’ll be able to cherry-pick the roles you want to apply for. READ NEXT: Tips for looking after your digital well-being when returning to work Compiled by Kaunda Selisho