Kaizer Chiefs have come out to put out fires regarding reports that they are facing another transfer ban after failing to follow proper procedure in the transfer of Teenage Hadebe back in 2019.  ALSO READ: Itchy-fingered Chippa boss Mpengesi explains ‘prodigal son’ Lentjies’ return The reports, which emerged on Monday afternoon, said Fifa had ruled against Chiefs in a case brought to it by Zimbabwean side Chicken Inn.  According to the reports, Chicken Inn were owed a certain percentage of Hadebe’s transfer as they had stipulated in their sale agreement when the defender joined Chiefs.  But when Amakhosi sold Hadebe to a Turkish side in 2019, they allegedly failed to pass on the percentage of the transfer fee to Chicken Inn.  According to a Far Post report, when Chiefs sold Hadebe to Yeni Malatyaspor the Zimbabwean side were supposed to get R233 600 from the sale based on a clause in their agreement when they bought the player.  It is reported that Chicken Inn were initially under the impression that Hadebe had joined the Turkish side as a free agent.  It was however later revealed that Chiefs had been paid an undisclosed fee for his transfer. Hadebe has since moved to the US Major League.  The report quoted Fifa compliance officer Emilio García Silvero’s letter sent to Chicken Inn after their ruling.  Responding to the reports, Chiefs sent out a statement through their social media platforms, calling the news as unfounded. “Kaizer Chiefs notes the reports that are making rounds relating to the transfer of Teenage Hadebe,” read the statement on Twitter. “Some news reports say: ‘Initially, indications are that Hadebe joined the Turkey club as a free agent. However, it was unearthed that the Arthur Zwane coached-side indeed sold him, albeit for an undisclosed fee.’ “The club would like to categorically dismiss the reports as flawed and misleading,” was all Chiefs said. Hadebe has since joined US Major League side where he has become an important player and will come up against former Chiefs teammate Njabulo Blom in league games. Chiefs were slapped with a two-window transfer ban after they were found to have erred in not remunerating Fosa Juniors of Madagascar for the transfer of Arohasina Andrianarimanana.  The initial ban had a bad impact on Chiefs and contributed to the lengthy trophy drought at Naturena.