Extremely high fire danger conditions are expected over the central and northern regions of the Northern Cape, extreme western parts of the North-West and the Central Karoo District of the Western Cape, the South African Weather Service (SAWS) has warned. A heatwave is also expected over the north-eastern parts of the Western Cape and northern parts of Eastern Cape. It will persist until Thursday in KwaZulu-Natal. Kwazulu Natal Tomorrow 's Weather overview: 19.1.2023 pic.twitter.com/qrK9gdDpzj— SA Weather Service (@SAWeatherServic) January 18, 2023 Gauteng: Partly cloudy and warm. The expected UVB sunburn index: Very High. Mpumalanga: Partly cloudy to cloudy and warm but hot in places in the Lowveld. Isolated showers and thundershowers are expected in the Lowveld and along the northern escarpment. Limpopo: Partly cloudy to cloudy and warm, but hot in places in the north. Isolated showers and thundershowers are expected. North West: Partly cloudy and hot with isolated showers and thundershowers except in the extreme east. Free State: Partly cloudy and warm to hot, with isolated showers and thundershowers except in the north-east and near Lesotho border. ALSO READ: Heatwave expected in parts of Western Cape and Eastern Cape Northern Cape: Partly cloudy and cool along the coast but warm to hot elsewhere, except over the northern interior where it will be very hot to extremely hot. Isolated showers and thundershowers are expected over the interior in the afternoon.  The wind along the coast will be moderate to fresh southerly to south-westerly.  Western Cape: Morning fog patches along the coastal areas and adjacent interior, otherwise partly cloudy and warm to hot but very hot in places over the eastern parts. Isolated to scattered showers and thundershowers can be expected over the east. The wind along the coast will be light northerly to north-westerly in the west and south-west becoming moderate westerly to south-westerly by afternoon. It will be light south-easterly along the south coast becoming southwesterly in the afternoon. The expected UVB sunburn index: Extreme. Western half of the Eastern Cape: Fine and warm to hot, becoming partly cloudy in the afternoon with scattered showers and thundershowers. The wind along the coast will be light easterly to south-easterly, becoming moderate south-westerly in the late afternoon. ALSO READ: Heatwave to persist in Eastern Cape and KZN until Thursday Eastern half of the Eastern Cape: Fine and warm to hot. It will become partly cloudy in places in the afternoon with isolated showers and thundershowers in the evening west of the Kei River. The wind along the coast will be light south-westerly, becoming moderate north easterly in the afternoon. KwaZulu-Natal: Partly cloudy and hot. The wind along the coast will be moderate north-easterly becoming fresh in the north from afternoon. The expected UVB sunburn index: Extreme