The story is an all too familiar one. Since being introduced in 1977, the BMW 7 Series has come close, but ultimately failed to equal its arch rival, the Mercedes-Benz S-Class. No matter the extension of Munich’s rate of development, it seemingly falls to pieces whenever the next generation S-Class arrives with an array of tech and luxury the 7 Series somehow cannot match. That though no longer seems to be the case with the latest generation 7 Series. Quite simply, BMW has thrown every possible trick in its arsenal at the W223 S-Class with the new internally designed G70 7 Series launched in South Africa last week. ALSO READ: New BMW 7 Series and updated X7 priced A tech triumph it most certainly is, the main issue of content that remained answered as the country’s media descend on Cape Town was whether the controversial and much criticised new styling would get the better of the G70 and render it lamented in the same way as the controversial E65 penned by then BMW lead designer Chris Bangle in 2001. As history has shown though, the E65, despite its looks and messy iDrive system, went on to become one of the best-selling 7 Series generations ever made with sales of 344 000 units between 2001 and 2008. To put this into perspective, only the previous generation F01 and the now outgoing G11 have sold in greater numbers, 374 000 and 350 000 respectively, with the often lauded E38 placing fourth with 328 000 ahead of the E32 (311 000) and the original E23 (285 000). It can, therefore, be argued that a leap into controversy has stood the 7 Series in good shape ever since the E65, a trait the G70 is not found wanting in the slightest. Besides its aesthetic, the G70 is longer and wider than the G11 7 Series, though when viewed in person, it appears more compact, narrower and not as bulky. Predictably, this outward aspect only keen observers are likely to spot pales in significance to those lights and that grille BMW defines as the new face of luxury. One of the largest and most imposing takes on the trademark kidney grille to date, which led to the creation of a series of online memes ever since the debut of the 4 Series two years ago, the facia is otherwise dominated by a new split headlight arrangement that appears to pay to pay tribute to the Z1 instead of being wholly new. What never starred on the aforementioned roadster though is the option of not only an illuminated grille surround, but also Swarovski crystals integrated into the lights themselves to create what BMW calls an Iconic Glow unlikely to be mistaken for anything but the new 7 Series. Not as opinion splitting as the front but still a topic of content, the rear facia is more rounded than on the G11 and highlighted by a smaller bootlid aperture plus thinner LED light clusters seemingly taken directly from the X4. The final eye-catching or eye-soaring exterior trait depending on which side of the fence is frequented, is the optional dual-tone paint option that, until now, has not been made available in the large luxury sedan segment. While likely to be viewed as sacrilege based on the understated nature this section of the market is largely known for, it adds another different dimension to the 7 Series enforced already by its styling. If the exterior elicits divisive opinions, the interior of the new 7 Series appears almost normal in comparison, until a closer look reveals the futuristic touches. For one, BMW has done away with the greater majority of physical buttons on the dashboard by integrating it into the new 14.9-inch iDrive infotainment system that forms of the Curved Display first introduced on the iX. Contrasted by a standard 12.3-inch digital instrument cluster, the iDrive incorporates the latest 8.0 operating system and has been intertwined with the former under a single piece of glass. Despite the button free-up, certain switchgear remains on the centre console and on the dashboard in a touch-sensitive design called the Interaction Bar. This includes the switches for the doors on the flanks and in the centre, for the air-conditioning, hazard lights and glovebox. Where the 7 Series shows its biggest trump card though is at the rear and in a unique way, the catalyst for the attending media not to experience it from the driver’s seat initially. Instead, the first half of the launch route from the Mother City to the Klapmuts area in the Cape Winelands saw us being chauffeured in two of the three derivatives BMW has availed for South Africa. Offered in Design Pure Excellence, M Sport and M Sport Pro trim levels, all three come standard with a 48-volt mild-hybrid system and comprise of the 740i, 740d xDrive and the all-electric i7 that replaces the V12-engine M760Li xDrive. Due to the oil-burner being slated for arrival in the second half of this year, its 220kW/670Nm couldn’t be experienced, leaving the 740i with its 280kW/540Nm to be the starting point of the journey. Besides being the first 7 Series to have automatic opening and closing doors, BMW has integrated a pair of 5.5-inch displays into door handles that controls the seats, alters the ambient lighting carried over the Interaction Bar, window blinds, climate control, sunroof and the audio system itself. In addition, the display can be selected to lounge mode that moves the passenger seat, without someone being seated of course, forward and reclines the rear chairs in an ottoman fashion up to 42.5-degrees. The piece de resistance, however, is the new 31.8-inch 4K touchscreen display that drops from the roof either in lounge or standard seating guises. If still not impressive enough, a further option is the 36-speaker Bowers & Wilkins surround sound system designed specifically for the 7 Series with that of the i7 having received additional input from famed Hollywood film composer, Hans Zimmer. Suffice to say, the rear of the 7 Series is an astonishing place to be not only from a comfort perspective, but also opulence brought on by the features, as well as refinement with very little road or wind noise being evident. Unsurprisingly, the blazing hot Cape weather meant that most of the trip was done in lounge mode with the display down, all of the window shades up, one of the number of massage functions selected and the ventilation as well as climate control set to maximum. While the place to be, and where most 7 Series will indeed find themselves, the run back to Cape Town along the coast behind the wheel surprised as initial concerns were that the 3.0-litre turbocharged straight-six engine would struggle to haul the 2.1-ton mass. In fact, the unit delivered the opposite as acceleration is brisk and effortless while still sporting the distinctive BMW straight-six bark as the revs climb. Taking the 7 Series up a notch is the standard dual-axle adaptive air suspension across the entire range that delivers a ride similar to gliding in an executive jet, without any turbulence. The surprise that is the 740i is predictably eclipsed by the i7 that emerged as the star of the range during the second and final day of the launch. A model BMW does not expect to play second fiddle to the petrol or diesel on sales despite the country’s current energy crisis, the i7 swaps the straight-six engines for a 101.7-kWh battery pack that produces an instant 400kW/745Nm. Capable of getting from 0-100 km/h in 4.7 seconds versus the 740i’s 5.4 seconds and the 740d’s 5.8 seconds, the i7 has a claimed range of up to 625km and despite weighing over 2.6-tons, is anything but sluggish. While the rapid acceleration of an electric vehicle has become an open secret by now, the rapid acceleration without a sound still rates as an occasion, and in the case of the i7, simply mind-blowing. That being side, along the Cape Peninsula and along Chapman’s Peak, it did feel its weight, which required restrained rather than exuberated use of the throttle in order to negotiate the bends without straying off. Seated in the back of the i7, while similar to the 740i, takes a different turn when you are cruising. With the exception of the silence, it also feels more comfortable somehow and even with the brute of a power-station up front, the slightest prod of the accelerator doesn’t impact the comfort aspect or indeed the overall jet-like whoosh. As much as the tech, which includes Level 3 autonomous driving, can be seen as an instant overload that will require a few days of familiarisation, it, along with the extroverted styling, arguably makes the new BMW 7 Series standout in a way more prominent than any past generation. While it would be too early to pronounce it the new luxury sedan benchmark above the S-Class and in the case of the i7, the EQS, it has made its case clear in the most dramatic way possible that will surely result in a more than a few alarm bells going off in Stuttgart more audible than at any stage over the last 46 years.