Turkish firm Yapi Merkezi,has on Wednesday, January 18,  launched the construction of the 4th phase of Tanzania’s Standard Gauge Railway Tabora –Isaka section. The groundbreaking ceremony was witnessed by Tanzania’s Vice President Dr. Philip Isdor Mpango. The 4th phase from Tabora to Isaka comes after the first, second, and third phases of the Dar Salaam-Mwanza Railway in Tanzania.   Upon completion this will be the longest railway line constructed by a Turkish contractor and the fastest in East Africa.  According to the MOU between Tanzania Railway Corporation and Yapi Merkezi construction of the section is supposed to be completed in 42 months from January 2023.  In addition to all infrastructure works in the single-track railway project in Tanzania, Yapı Merkezi has undertaken all the pieces of construction of a total of 3 stations between the cities of Tabora and Isaka, a maintenance workshop, and depot area, an Administrative Building, a Railway Institute, construction of 165-km-long single-track railway with sidetracks, signaling, telecommunications and electrification work.   The event among other high profile guests was attended by the Vice President, Dr Philip Isdor Mpango, Minister of Works and Transport, Prof. Makame Mbrawa, Tanznaia Railways Director General, Masanja K. Kadogosa, , Deputy General Managers of Yapı Merkezi Construction, Hakan Alkan and Erhan Cengiz. Speaking during the ceremony, Dr. Philip Isdor Mpango said, that the SGR is strategic development project for Tanzania. “The section is set to create more than 20,000 employment opportunities whereas a total worth of Sh1.9 trillion will go to sub-contractors who will also pay taxes that boost government revenue," he said.  Dr. Philip Isdor Mpango further congratulated Tanzania Railway Corporation (TRC) for the efforts made to get value for money with the right contractors and sub-contractors. "I urge the contractors to work diligently and make sure the projects are completed on time" he concluded  Hon. Prof. Makame M. Mbarawa, the Minister of Construction and Transport applauded TRC for the support and guidance given on the SGR project and assured the public that the government of Tanzania intends to invest in transport infrastructure because a robust transport system goes a long way in boosting the economy of the nation, saying that 14 percent of the government revenue is boosted as a result of the movement of goods, services, and people.   Yapı Merkezi has undertaken big projects globally, and this 4th phase is coming after its successful works in the first two phases of the Tanzania SGR project. The company had undertaken the 3rd phase works in December 2021 based on its successful works in the first 2 phases of the project. On his part,  Hakan Alkan, Deputy General Manager of Yapı Merkezi Construction, said they are happy to add a new one to many successful projects carried out by the firm in Africa. “Tanzanian Railways authorities have also awarded the third and fourth phases of this very important railway line thanks to the diligence and work quality shown by us in the first two sections of the Dar es Salaam-Mwanza Railway in a length of 540 km from Dar es Salaam to Makutupora, which is the longest railway line constructed by a Turkish contractor in Africa and the fastest in East Africa, carried by us in Tanzania,” he said TRC Director General Masanja K. Kadogosa said the completion of the SGR will reduce the time it takes to move goods and services and people resulting in reduced prices for goods and services. “For example, it will take roughly 8 hours to move from Dar es Salaam to Mwanza. The same will impact local people between these cities” Apart from Tanzania Yapı Merkezi has  undertaken ongoing and completed transportation projects in other African countries including, Ethiopia, Senegal, Zambia, Algeria, Morocco, and Sudan.  