The Bulls no doubt have an exciting young pack, but they are looking for consistency so they can maintain the pressure on their powerful Champions Cup opponents this weekend, the Exeter Chiefs, who won the competition in 2020. Exeter are known for overpowering teams up front, so nothing but a sustained physical effort from the Bulls is going to suffice at Loftus Versfeld on Saturday night.  Even in their comfortable 29-14 win against the Dragons last weekend in Newport, the Bulls forwards were clearly dominant, but they did not always make that count and the Pretoria coaching staff know they will need to improve considerably if they are to beat the Chiefs. “We had let ourselves down in the weeks before that match and even though it was a very good win against the Dragons, to be honest we are still not where we want to be, we can still be better,” forwards coach Russell Winter said at Loftus Versfeld on Thursday. Read more: Bulls back to winning ways with win over Dragons “We have to step it up, we need to perform even better than we did against the Dragons, and if we don’t match Exeter physically then they will get on top of us. Consistency and cutting out the little errors is what we need to really get into the groove. “You always fight fire with fire, there’s never any other way because rugby is a collision sport and if you don’t win the collisions, you won’t win the match. “Good teams break down the systems of other teams, that’s why they win. The intensity in this competition is definitely higher, and we have to lift that a notch,” Winter said. Breakdown guru Nollis Marais agreed that the Bulls have to keep bashing away for the full 80 minutes on Saturday. “Momentum is key and when you lose that then you allow the other team to come back in the game. It’s all about keeping the pressure on them. You do that by not making simple mistakes and not conceding penalties, which makes it easier for the opposition to come back,” Marais said. Exeter have shown they mean business coming to Pretoria with a full-strength side, barring injuries to fullback Stuart Hogg and hooker Luke Cowan-Dickie, because they are second to Leinster in Pool A and are actively chasing the No.1 seeding for the knockout rounds. “They have a good scrum and maul which performed against us last time,” Winter said of the Bulls’ thumping 14-44 defeat last month at Exeter. “They have a good pack, well-coached. “They have been a very good mauling side for the last five or six years, it’s part of their DNA and we definitely expect the same this weekend. They will play us up front.” *Director of rugby Jake White is out of ICU after his stomach surgery and has been moved to a normal ward. He is hoping to be at Loftus Versfeld on Saturday, according to a Bulls spokesman. Read more: ‘Massive’ win in Wales a big confidence boost for Bulls — captain Nortje