Limpopo police have arrested a 38-year-old suspect and seized illegally mined chrome worth an estimated street value of R500 000. The suspect was arrested on Wednesday night by the Limpopo Highway Patrol team while travelling along the R37 road next to Atok in the Apel policing precinct outside Burgersfort. ALSO READ: Eight suspected illegal miners die after being trapped underground According to police, officers were performing normal patrol duties when they noticed an overloaded tipper truck travelling in the direction of Burgesfort at about 23:00. The truck was stopped and the driver was questioned about the load and informed police that he was transporting chrome that was allegedly gathered by illegal miners at a mine in Atok. Police spokesperson Colonel Malesela Ledwaba said the man was immediately arrested and the truck was also confiscated. “The suspect is expected to appear in the Sekhukhune Magistrate’s Court on Friday, 13 January 2023, facing a charge of unlawful possession of precious metals (chrome),” said Ledwaba in a statement.  Police investigations were continuing into the crime, Ledwaba added. Meanwhile, eight suspected illegal miners died at a chrome mine in Limpopo last Friday. It is understood the miners who were digging for chrome at Ga-Maroga village died when they were allegedly trapped underground. Police in Driekop outside Burgersfort opened an inquest docket concerning the deaths of the miners who are also suspected to be foreign nationals. Police spokesperson Brigadier Motlafela Mojapelo said adverse weather conditions played a role in the miners’ fate. “One South African, three Mozambicans and four Zimbabweans were allegedly busy with illegal mining activities when the water coming from heavy rains that fell in the area apparently pushed the soil that blocked the only point they were using for entry and exit. They then apparently suffocated,” said Mojapelo. Mojapelo said the community assisted in retrieving the bodies of the deceased miners. He said a case of illegal mining will be registered against the deceased miners. “Charges in terms of the Immigration Act will also be preferred against the seven deceased as they were in the country illegally.” “The postmorten will be conducted to determine the cause of death.”  Compiled by Thapelo Lekabe NOW READ: Six suspects arrested in Limpopo for alleged killing of two men during vigilante attack