Big Brother stars Mpho Wabadimo and Themba Broly are rumoured to have had a secret wedding sometime last December, and the controversial e.tv drama, The Black Door, said they saw fit to make this public in the show’s storyline. The show has featured quite a few celebrity cameos since it began (having featured the likes of Zodwa Wa Bantu) and this time, the show’s strip club/brothel hosted the famous duo. This Friday viewers will get to see The Black Door host a wedding for the Big Brother couple who will be playing fictional characters.  Themba and Mpho Wabadimo are now married traditionally ???????????????? pic.twitter.com/S9oJX0Z6qG “The Black Door is just out of a production break after viewers requested that the show be paused to accommodate families staying up late during the festive season.  “Since the show resumed on Monday, 9 January, the story continued with recent festive activities, including a Christmas and New Year’s Eve Party,” explained the channel in a statement.  Mpho and Themba’s wedding unfolds on New Year’s Eve at The Black Door where Romeo has invited Mpho, who will be playing Pearl and Themba, appearing as Zola.  During the festivities, the two guests then decide to tie the knot at the club but not without their fair share of drama involving Slay Queen. ALSO READ: ‘Did e.tv unsign the code of conduct?’ – Fans react to raunchy new show ‘The Black Door’ Viewers have been left wondering if Slay Queen, portrayed by the gorgeous Thabisile Zikhali, has sex with Themba on the show. The Black Door episode starring Big Brother stars Mpho Wabadimo and Themba Broly airs on Friday, 9.30pm on e.tv. Viewers can also watch all episodes of The Black Door on eVOD, eMedia’s streaming service. The Black Door is a South African television drama series created by Mandla N and Mpumelelo Nhlapo.  It is an e.tv original production produced by Black Brain Pictures for e.tv.  The series stars Linda Sebezo, Zamani Mbatha, Velephi Mnisi, Gabisile Tshabalala and SK Khoza among others. According to the channel, The Black Door is a provocative series, set in the high-stakes world of a pleasure-dome brothel, uncovering dramatic and emotional stories that will resonate with viewers. The brothel, hidden behind a toilet paper manufacturing factory, is called The Black Door and is an exclusive private venue owned by Mam’ Rebecca (Linda Sebezo). There, she treats her business associates and thanks them “in-kind” for facilitating her tender frauds and bribes.