Keagan Dolly is happy to be a mentor to the younger players at Kaizer Chiefs and believes Amakhosi can mount a challenge to Mamelodi Sundowns in this season’s DStv Premiership title race. ALSO READ: Sundowns look for key to unlock stubborn Richards Bay Chiefs host Sekhukhune United on Saturday at FNB Stadium and could be as much as 13 points behind Sundowns when they kick off, depending on what Masandawana do against Richards Bay on Friday. Amakhosi, however, are improving under Arthur Zwane, and started the resumption of the campaign with a 2-0 win at Golden Arrows, where 21 year-old Samkelo Zwane started and played well in midfield, while 18 year-old Mduduzi Shabalala came off the bench for the last 25 minutes or so, for his second league appearance of the season. Shabalala has already had a trial in Belgium and Dolly, who played for Montpellier in France, said it is vital that the senior players show the way to those coming through the ranks. “It is very important for us as senior players to try and help them on and off the field,” said Dolly at a media conference at the Chiefs Village in Naturena. “For us it is mainly to lead by example and … to talk to them when we have a chance. I think the boys who are getting a chance now are very humble, they have been part of the academy here and know what it takes to be part of the team. On young attacking star Shabalala, Dolly added: “He has a lot of confidence, you can see when he is on the ball he is not afraild to play and loves the game. He is taking risks whenever he gets the opportunity. You could see from how he went on trial overseas, that shows what he wants to achieve.” Dolly, meanwhile, refuted a suggestion from Swallows FC coach Ernst Middendorp that Sundowns already have the league title sewn up. “We are only halfway, there is still a lot to play for,” said Dolly. “Sundowns once won the league in the last 20 minutes of the season, so anything can happen. For us it is not to focus on what they are doing, we have our own race to run … and our next focus is on Sekhukhune.”