If there is one thing we so much need as a developing nation is to have our people influenced into positive social action by maximising the utility of the formal and informal social informedness systems. The goal which is yet to be attained is to have in everyone’s mind a clear vision of us as a people and as a nation which both aim at, and work towards socioeconomic and socio-political stability, development, growth, and progress.           We need to look beyond the daily sustenance of the masses. That is, beyond managing to eat, clothe, and sleep in a shelter. We need progressive social empowerment plans that lay the foundations for higher standards in all aspects: wellbeing, health, education, social welfare, careers, innovation, education, science, and technology. Obviously, the government, which is the custodian of these development prospects, has a whole lot of plans in place through its different jurisdictive ministries. But the questions will be: Are these plans public and clearly understood? Is the pursuit process for achieving them genuine? Is there enough groundwork to help achieve them? Is the process inclusive enough? And finally, and most importantly: Are the people informed, or just influenced?  The feel of the streets Out there, there is progress, but people do not really feel the relief that the ‘traditional’ process (which has always been in ties with politics) has been promising since the beginning of the socioeconomic and socio-political emancipation process in the country. This is because promises heighten expectations, but the execution of those promises is just basic, and nothing to write home about. We have always been at a stage of clapping hands for our leaders when they do something good as if they do so out of their generosity. What should be termed as ‘social action’ executed by the leaders is taken as a charity, and the leaders enjoy reverence for the same. By definition, sociologists explain  social action as: “when people come together to help improve their lives and solve the problems that are important in their communities.” People cannot come together and make productive judgements without there being an understanding of what they are being influenced to accept. The currency of growth in our case is shedding the outdated and less useful policies, plans, and systemic traditions we have harboured, the tool is informing our people, the language is functional inclusion, and the time is now. In Tanzania, struggles with internal corruption and structural underperformance will subside and end when people who are eventually entrusted with the care of resources, have been made to imbibe the national vision and tune their individual values and commitments towards achieving the same. As the general-led citizenry, we ought to go beyond being influenced and beyond blind adherence. This will help make more room for airing genuine opinions, asking questions, and general participation in well-structured social action plans for the many problems that bother us in our various communities. In his book ‘Africa Must Unite’ (1963), which turns 60 years old this year, Kwame Nkrumah, the first president of Ghana, and one of the Pan-Africanism champions leaves us with a thoughtful and relevant insight. He portrays what we have been talking about here.   He says: “… Africa needs a new type of citizen, a dedicated, modest, honest and informed man. A man who submerges himself in service to the nation and mankind. A man who abhors greed and detests vanity. A new type of man whose humility is his strength and whose integrity is his greatness.”  This needs to reflect in our leaders. Leadership is at the pulling hem of social action. Social action only becomes better with the integrity and quality of leadership. Nothing worthwhile is achieved when the larger population is not informed about the socioeconomic and socio-political vision of the country. In all honesty, developed nations will not suffer the consequences as compared to less developed nations like Tanzania. The fact that we are on our way up, with a status quo that is not yet good enough, should be a challenge to make us hold with a firm grip what will take us up there. For the fact that the general citizenry is the beneficiary of social action in its multiple faces, there is a great need of having the people made aware. This touches all aspects of the socio-political and socio-economic life of Tanzanian society. The government does not need to singlehandedly both prescribe and safeguard the social action vision of the country. This has proved a failure in several instances when policies were implemented and changed after a short while, particularly in education and taxation. Young people in primary and secondary schools are not well informed about the social action plan of their country. Making them aware of where we were, where we are, and where we plan to be in the future motivates their sense of national pride and aligns their future aspirations with the national socio-economic visions.