This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. This is a modal window. This modal can be closed by pressing the Escape key or activating the close button. The exclusive and acclaimed Waterfall Equestrian Estate boasts a six-bedroomed architectural dream realised. This beautifully curated green energy, modern north-east facing home comes with a whopping R 68 999 000 price tag, but a tour around this beautiful estate might justify the price. A self-sufficient home with four JoJo tanks, a generator and a solar system. One is greeted by a classy and contemporary, valet-styled entrance, fully equipped with a stunning water feature at the main entrance. Visiting family and friends will be housed on the bottom floor, and the guest suite is fully kitted out, allowing your visitors to access all the entertainment and splendour this home has to offer. It has a fully equipped kitchenette, dining area, lounge space, and direct private access to the bountiful grounds, which boasts an endearing fireplace and pool.  There’s also a walk-in closet with his and her double sink, shower and floating bath. ALSO WATCH: Inside Meghan Markle and Prince Harry’s R570 million Netflix mansion If you are crazy about floor space, the open-planned ground floor will leave you giddy.  There’s enough room to house two large lounge suites, with a spacious bar area and fitted sink. Furnished with Greek-style tiles, the impressive staircase takes you to the second floor, and if you’re too tired to climb the stairs, there is a lift to the left. Upstairs houses a master study with floor-to-ceiling windows and custom-made remote-control blinds. There’s also a built-in double-story bookshelf with a specially designed wooden staircase. and a host of his and hers eloquent modern guest restrooms. All four bedrooms are uniquely styled, complete with en-suites and walk-in closets and private balconies. The main bedroom has a skylight shower, floating bathtub, double basins and toilets, which lead to a large walk-in closet with a vanity and island centre. There is also a private kitchenette and lounge area with a pool and garden view.  ALSO READ: MUST SEE: Multimillion-rand Jozi mansion still for sale Depending on who you ask, the kitchen is arguably the most important feature in any home. Separated by a massive glass wine cellar display, it’s evident this home is built for the entertainer. The kitchen is open plan, complete with La’Canche cooking tops, gas and conventional ovens, heater drawers, pasta boiler, grill and five gas eyes with an extraction canopy.  There are two large islands with plenty of storage space and spacious dining areas that can seat up to 14 guests comfortably. A second kitchen is connected to the scullery, a chef’s dream, perfectly curated and installed with state-of-the-art equipment. The scullery contains a walk-in fridge and freezer with industrial stainless-steel shelving and three wide walk-in pantry spaces, and two dishwashers. Apart from the magnificent pool and fireplace, this Waterfall Equestrian Estate home boasts a gym with a fully equipped en-suite bathroom, steam/shower, and a large walk-in laundry closet. Leading towards the basement garage, there is a safe room and a private cinema room. The basement garage can park up to 10 cars and two large storage spaces. The kitchen is separated by a laundry area that can accommodate two washing machines, a heat pump tumble dryer, an integrated ironing board, and internal laundry hanging facility. The house offers a three bedroom and two bathroom staff quarters, also equipped with a private terrace. NOW READ: This R65-million discounted mansion in Houghton is considered a steal