Dar es Salaam. Mlandege Football Club and Singida Big Stars clash today at 8.15pm in the Mapinduzi Cup final match to be held at the Amaan Stadium in Zanzibar. Mlandege FC qualified for the final after eliminating Namungo FC on penalties while Singida Big Stars have reached the stage after outshining Azam FC 4-1. Mlandege FC head coach Mohamed Abdallah ‘Bares’ said his players are ready for the encounter and target victory in order to win the trophy for the first time in their history. The winners of the tournament will be awarded Sh30 million while the runners-up will get Sh20 million. Bares said there is no injury in his squad from which, he explained, he will select the best starting lineup ahead of the encounter. “I know how the match is going to be tough to us, but I am proud of my players ahead of the encounter. All of us target the silverware to make history in the competition,” said Bares. He said they do not underestimate Singida Big Stars in the encounter since they managed to play well in the group and knockout stages. “I have an experience in Tanzania Mainland’s football and that’s why I have no pressure, despite our match against Singida Big Stars will be tough. “We are going to apply the same techniques and tactics that made us shine in all the stages that we passed through till the final. I have told my players to be very keen throughout the game and avoid making mistakes that may cost us,” he said. For his part, Singida Big Stars head coach Hans Van der Pluijm said his players are in top form and are optimistic about coming out with a good result in the match despite Mlandege arguably being a stronger team. We are going to face a tough team, but our players are in high morale and ready for the challenge,” he bragged. “Mlandege have a strong team of talented players. But we will have to show our prowess in the encounter and win the trophy to take to our home place,” said Pluijm. However, the record shows that the Mapinduzi Cup is dominated by Mainland teams such as Azam FC, who have won the title five times, Simba have won the cup three times while Yanga and Mtibwa Sugar have each won two times. Zanzibar’s teams namely Jamhuri of Pemba, Polisi, KMKM, Mafunzo, Malindi and Miembeni have each won the title once. Also, on the list are Uganda’s Kampala City Council Authority (KCCA) and Uganda Revenue Authority (URA), who have each won the title only once.