DJ and media personality Lamiez Holworthy-Morule has continued to detail her pregnancy experience and calling out haters on what women experience during this precious time.  Lamiez is expecting her first child with her husband Khuli Chana and has been honest about experiencing changes in her body and journaling her journey.  Taking to her Instagram to admire her mini art gallery with artworks by Sthu Manaka in her home. Lamiez is pictured in a figure-hugging blue dress with a designer yellow bag, however, her caption was addressing something that wasn’t sitting well with her.  “On a more serious note. So I’ve seen the comparisons, compliments and even jokes about pregnancy and whilst I count myself very lucky because I haven’t experienced any drastic physical changes (although the abdominal pains, swollen legs, nausea, migraines and hormones are showing me real flames) I simply don’t like the jokes attacking other pregnant women. “Truth is, no one has control over how they look or even how smoothly their pregnancy goes and to be subjected to demeaning words and unnecessary verbal and emotional abuse isn’t fair. “ANY woman who carries life is a superhero with superpowers in my opinion and should all be celebrated and embraced regardless of how they look.” The DJ says life will come with challenges and the least people can do is to be kind and admires mothers “because take it from me- pregnancy is no walk in the park! You’re literally risking your life to carry and bring a healthy, happy and normal child into this world”. Lamiez concluded that people shouldn’t use her to bring down women.  She shared a video on her Facebook page saying her pregnancy isn’t as great as people depicted it to be, despite people complimenting her that she’s carrying her pregnancy “so well”. “As funny as it is, there are a lot of changes that come with being pregnant – physically, mentally and even emotionally. Throw in the hormones, the nausea, the abdominal pains and migraines, [and] the only thing that makes it all worth it is feeling your baby kick.  READ NEXT: ‘Nothing could have prepared me for this’ – Lamiez on pregnancy struggles