The internet has long been a great place to learn about all kinds of things, but with the rise of social media it’s gotten even more accessible and now we not only get to read about the ultimate fashion hacks, we get to see them first hand through step-by-step photos or TikTok videos. And apparently when it comes to jeans there’s a lot to learn. This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. This is a modal window. This modal can be closed by pressing the Escape key or activating the close button. Believe it or not, but it is possible to buy a pair of perfect-fitting jeans without trying them on. It can be extremely time consuming to try clothes on, especially when you are short on time or when you are wearing several layers of clothes. How to choose the perfect size: Simply take the waistband of the jeans and wrap them around your neck. If it meets at the back, you know it will fit. If the points of the waistband don’t touch, the jeans won’t fit you and if they cross over way too much, they will be too big for you. ALSO SEE: How to get the perfect curls using your kitchen strainer | The Citizen Most of us know that feeling of wanting to put on your favourite pair of jeans, but then realising that they are just too tight. Whether you are bloated or gained a little bit of weight, you can still comfortably rock your favourite pair of jeans without buying a new pair in a bigger size. The first hack to stretch your jeans is to use a hairband and loop it around the button of your jeans and through the hole and then back onto the button. If you have a little more time, you can try the wet stretch technique. How it works: Put on your jeans and wet the waist and thigh area completely with a water. Wear the wet jeans all day and sit as much as possible while wearing them. You’ll fit into them comfortably by the end of the day. If losing a couple of kilograms is your New Year’s solution, you should be prepared for the day when your jeans will be too big for you. The good news is that you don’t have to throw them out. There are ways to wear them to tighten them, without wearing a belt. One ways is to take the button of your jeans and thread it through the first belt loop and then button your jeans as normal. If this loophole doesn’t work for you, you can buy adjustable buttons to create the same effect. The shoelace trick is another route you can take. Essentially you just need a shoelace. Cut a little snippet on the right and left sides of your jeans in the waistband. Use a safety pin to feed the shoelace through your jeans. When you are done, put your jeans on – the shoelace will ruffle your jeans so they fit perfectly around your waist. *Compiled by Xanet Scheepers NOW READ: WATCH: How Doja Cat’s ‘Inferno’ look came together