The Department of Correctional Services said order has been restored at the Boksburg Prison after inmates barricaded a sectional gate during a search operation at the facility. It is understood inmates barricaded the sectional gate in retaliation to a mandatory search operation by the National Task Team as part of its Festive Season Security Operation. Chaos broke out at the facility when officials clashed with inmates over a search operation aimed at rooting out illegal cellphones and other contraband. In a statement, the spokesperson for the Department of Correctional Services, Singabakho Nxumalo, said they have launched an investigation into the incident. “The department shall never hesitate to act with vigour in order to ensure that there is no dereliction from the core mandate of corrections. Inmates attempting to undermine authority of the state know fully of the consequences and the department will never compromise safety and security of other inmates, officials, members of the community and service providers.” ALSO READ: Police nab gang terrorising Joburg and Hillbrow residents [VIDEO] Nxumalo said the proliferation of mobile phones and other contrabands is a grave concern and have to be removed from prisons. “Some of the images circulating via social media emanate from inmates, making a mockery of the correctional system. This is a clear indication that the few unruly inmates who sought to prevent the searching exercise – knew fully that they were hiding contrabands in their cells.” The Department of Correctional Services said that law and order has been restored at the Boksburg Prison after inmates barricaded a sectional gate during a search operation at the facility. #BoksburgPrison #FestiveSeason @Min_JCS Video: Supplied pic.twitter.com/VraRcVwblm— ???????????????????????? ???????????????????? (@FaizelPatel143) January 3, 2023 He vowed there will be a speedy punishment for defiant inmates. “The perpetrators have identified themselves through social media platforms and their action will assist in terms of the disciplinary processes.” “We will never tolerate undermining of the Correctional Services Act by unruly inmates hellbent on continuing to unleash terror to communities and officials through acts of crime even when they are under lawful custody,” he said. The department said a full scale investigation will be launched and the Festive Season Security Operation will continue as scheduled. ALSO READ: 260 nabbed for illegal possession of firearms in Gauteng in December This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. This is a modal window. This modal can be closed by pressing the Escape key or activating the close button.