Here’s your morning news update: An easy-to-read selection of our top stories. Stay up to date with The Citizen – More News, Your Way The founding Speaker of South Africa’s first democratic Parliament, Dr Frene Ginwala, has passed away at the age of 90. Ginwala died on Thursday night following a stroke two weeks ago, President Cyril Ramaphosa announced her passing in a statement. ALSO READ: 21 Icons featuring Frene Ginwala Ramaphosa has extended his condolences to Ginwala’s family, friends, colleagues and associates in South Africa and beyond. His “hands are tied” on the decison of National Energy Regulator of South Africa (NERSA) to hike electricity prices, President Cyril Ramaphosa has told South Africans as he prepares to lead a delegation to the World Economic Forum’s (WEF) in Davos. Eskom will be allowed to increase electricity tariffs by 18.65% following lengthy deliberations by the electricity sub-committee, Nersa announced on Thursday. Households and businesses already buckling under the devastating impact of load shedding will feel the pinch when the change takes effect at the beginning of April. The National Prosecuting Authority (NPA) has appointed Adv Dumisa Ntsebeza to review the measures that have been adopted to deal with and prosecute TRC matters and to provide recommendations as needed. According to NPA spokesperson Adv Mthunzi Mhaga on Friday, the move is in line with the remarks made by the Full Bench in Rodrigues v National Director of Public Prosecutions of South Africa and Others 76755/2018)(2019) in the South Gauteng High Court in 2019 where the court held “that the conduct of the relevant officials and others outside the NPA at the time should be brought to the attention of the National Director of Public Prosecutions for her consideration and in particular, to consider whether any action in terms of Section 41(1) of the NPA Act is warranted. The Special Investigating Unit (SIU) has received the greenlight to freeze luxury properties linked to fraud and corruption at the National Lotteries Commission (NLC). The SIU, together with the National Prosecuting Authority’s Asset Forfeiture Unit (AFU), have obtained a preservation order from Pretoria High Court to seize the properties which include three luxury properties, a plot, and a portion of a farm. The properties include Kwaito legend Arthur Mafokate’s luxury property in Midrand, as well as a Cape Town property belonging to former NLC legal representative Lesley Ramulifho. Today marks 32 years since 42 people lost their lives during a match between Kaizer Chiefs and Orlando Pirates at the Orkney Stadium. ALSO READ: Give my players more credit, pleads Sundowns coach Mokwena The incident happened on 13 January 1991.According to reports, a scuffle between Chiefs and Pirates fans broke out when Chiefs scored a goal, and the fans started throwing objects at each other , with some reports claiming that there were also knives involved.