Despite Suzuki having ruled the possibility of a bakkie version of the Jimny out after showcasing a concept four years ago, the automaker’s CEO for Australia has hinted that the door might not be shut indefinitely. Back in 2019, the Hamamatsu unveiled the single cab Jimny Sierra Pick Up Style at the Tokyo Motor Show, which, despite receiving widescale acclaim, remained a concept as a result of factory constraints brought on by excessive global demand for the regular three-door Jimny. Less than a year later, images emerged showing a production Jimny bakkie in New Zealand, which was later discovered as being a Suzuki sanctioned product, but without any actual input from the automaker itself. ALSO READ: Open-deck Suzuki Jimny finally happens… but only in New Zealand The uncovering ignited interest and calls for Suzuki to introduce a factory-made open-deck Jimny, which, once again, comes to nothing as the brand insisted it had no plans to re-enter a segment it last competed in eleven years ago with the US-market only Equator spun-off of the D40 Nissan Navara. “This is a Suzuki New Zealand initiative only that they themselves are responsible for, especially when it comes to aftersales. This won’t be considered for South Africa; the cost involved is also not viable and there are also strict regulations in South Africa that need to be adhered to,” Suzuki South Africa’s Media Liaison Officer, Toni Herbst, told The Citizen when quizzed about the Jimny at the time. Addressing the chances of the Jimny bakkie possibly coming to eventual fruition, Michael Pachota said it hasn’t given up raising to matter to the firm’s head office as it believes a market exists for such a model as evident by the New Zealand conversion. “I mention it to [Suzuki HQ in] Japan and they take our feedback on board. They want to hear what customers are saying and a lot of the dialogue from customers end ups in the design and engineering studios for what’s to come in future,” Pachota told carsales.com.au on the side-lines of the five-door Jimny’s unveiling at the Delhi Auto Expo on Thursday (12 January). “I can’t say a Jimny ute is in development at the moment but I wouldn’t be surprised. The five-door Jimny was a secret for a long time and that was five years in the making.” In a related response to drive.com on the matter, Pachota said, “If one were to become available, we would grab it with both hands. It remains high on our wish list but for now we have received no communication. That said, Suzuki has surprised us before, so we remain hopeful”. For more information on the Suzuki Jimny, click here.