This week’s episodes of Uyajola 9/9 were somewhat mild as they followed the show’s usual formula, starting the year off on a chilled note.  The first Uyajola 9/9 episode followed Fikile from Kanana Park who turned to the Uyajola team after her boyfriend of one year – Rudzani – had started acting “funny” which caused her to get suspicious.  She told the show that when she attempts to go visit him where he lives, he tells her to hang tight and that he will come to see her instead. Fikile added that he says things are this way because he lives with his parents and they are strict.  Fikile’s additional concerns stemmed from the fact that he doesn’t take her out, doesn’t come to see her and doesn’t let her touch his phone.  When X asked what her goal for the confrontation was, she said she’d break up with him if he was cheating.  After the confrontation, the Uyajola 9/9 team found him in town, running errands with his lover.  Fikile and Rudzani spent the episode shouting incoherently before X asked him which woman he loved more. He told X that who he loves is none of his business.  Rudzani then claimed Fikile was boring in bed and when X asked why he didn’t just tell her this, Rudzani once again refused to answer.  Thereafter, he tried to run away and Fikile refused to let him go. She cried and held on to him desperately as he tried to run away.  He eventually got out of her grip and left with the other woman. In the second Uyajola 9/9 episode for the week, X returned to help Busi from Soweto find out what is going on with her boyfriend of five years. She said he is full of excuses and that he avoids spending time with her. When asked what she would do if she caught him cheating, she said she’d “deal with him”. ALSO READ: Uyajola 9/9 sees Jub Jub go off on a car chase X then confirmed that not only was he cheating but that he had children with the woman he was cheating with. It was revealed that he had told Busi that he doesn’t have children. She then said that they had even been speaking about having a child because she wants to be a mother. They found the couple hanging out at a watering hole and Busi immediately got into a physical fight with the other woman who was identified as Mbimbi.  Mbimbi then grabbed Busi’s wig and threw it on the ground and Busi told her to stop being so careless with the hair because it is a Brazilian wig.  Speaking to X, Mbimbi said that she had known the man for a long time and that she didn’t know he was with Busi. She said they had been dating for three weeks but that she had known him for a year.  The bodyguards then held him in place as X tried to figure out what was going on. He eventually managed to slip away and run but the Uyajola 9/9 security team caught up with him.  As Busi was trying to speak to her man Mbimbi, grabbed her wig again and tossed it around. Mbimbi later burst into tears after fighting with Busi once again.  It’s a shame man, women should stop fighting each other over a man playing both of them #Uyajola99 pic.twitter.com/xZG4xB797X— sta soft (@boobxt) January 1, 2023 At least the lipstick and eyelashes stayed on #Uyajola99— Whit (@WhitzSA) January 1, 2023 leave the girl n fight your bf rhaa!!#Uyajola99— smith (@smith63317033) January 1, 2023 *Compiled by Kaunda Selisho