The South African National Editors’ Forum (SANEF) has condemned the robbery of the INX Prime studios in Houghton, Johannesburg, on Monday night. Sanef said it was informed by INX Prime that staff members were held at gunpoint by several armed robbers. It said no staff member were injured in the robbery. “INX Prime, which broadcasts across sub-Saharan Africa and can be accessed through DStv on channel 345, told Sanef a large amount of broadcast equipment such as computers and TV screens were stolen during the military-style robbery,” it said. Sanef said journalists are have come under attack when reporting. “Recently, Sanef has witnessed how journalists get robbed when covering stories, and how several broadcast media have been targeted, with expensive equipment being stolen by brazen criminals.” Sibusiso Ngalwa, Sanef’s chairperson, said crime continues to be one of the biggest scourges in SA, with journalists and their equipment not spared. “We hope that the latest unfortunate robbery would spur the police to act and seek to arrest these criminals.” INX Prime has assured Sanef it is currently looking at how security measures can be improved to prevent future incidents from happening. ALSO READ: Sanef condemns cyberbullying of entertainment journalist Sanef said a criminal case has also been opened with the South African Police Service (SAPS). “INX Prime, which has only been on air for four months, will get counselling for its traumatised staff members who were held at gunpoint during the robbery,” it said. Last year, journalists and media personalities from across the country were once again rewarded by Adcock Ingram, Sponsors of Brave for their incredible work in a year fraught with adversity and challenges. Katy Katopodis the News Director at Newzroom Afrika and chair of Sanef’s Journalism wellness and safety committee said the Brave Journalism Media Awards is an ode to the brave, the ones who stand at a split road and choose the path less travelled. “These are the people, brave enough to take risks, investigate, ask the really tough questions. We run toward stories when others run away, and brave enough to tell stories in South Africa that truly matter,” Katopodis said. ALSO READ: Media personalities and brave journalists honoured at glittering event