The South African Weather Service (SAWS) has forecasted extremely high fire danger conditions over the ZF Mgcawu district, Namakwa district and Kareeberg local municipalities of the Northern Cape as well as Cederberg and Drakenstein municipalities of the Western Cape. The weather service also warned of hot and humid weather which could result in extremely uncomfortable conditions over the Little Karoo, Nama Khoi, Drakenstein municipalities of Western Cape and the south-western Namakwa district of Northern Cape. Western Cape Tomorrow ‘s Weather overview: 2.1.2023 pic.twitter.com/pWNUV4U7Pa— SA Weather Service (@SAWeatherServic) January 1, 2023 Gauteng: Partly cloudy and warm with isolated showers and thundershowers. The expected UVB sunburn index: Extreme. Mpumalanga: Morning fog patches over the Highveld and along the escarpment, otherwise partly cloudy and warm but hot in places in the Lowveld. Isolated showers and thundershowers are expected on the southwestern Highveld from the afternoon. Limpopo: Cloudy over the central parts and along the escarpment in the morning with fog patches, otherwise partly cloudy and warm with isolated light showers over the central and western parts. It will be hot in the Lowveld. North West: Partly cloudy and warm with isolated showers and thundershowers. Free State: Partly cloudy and warm with scattered showers and thundershowers, but isolated in the north and west. Northern Cape: Very hot in the northwest, otherwise partly cloudy and warm to hot with isolated showers and thundershowers, except in the extreme northeast, but scattered in the extreme southeast. It will be fine in the extreme west. The wind along the coast will be light and variable at first, becoming moderate north to north-westerly, but west to south-westerly from the afternoon. Western Cape: Morning fog along the coast, otherwise partly cloudy and warm, but hot to very hot over the interior. Isolated showers and thundershowers are expected over the Central Karoo from the afternoon. The wind along the coast will be moderate to fresh south-easterly, but strong along the southwest coast. The expected UVB sunburn index: Extreme Western half of the Eastern Cape: Cloudy with fog in places in the southeast at first, otherwise partly cloudy and warm to hot with isolated showers and thundershowers over the northern and central interior, but scattered in the extreme north. The wind along the coast will be light to moderate easterly, becoming fresh to strong from late morning. Eastern half of the Eastern Cape: Cloudy with fog in places south of the escarpment at first, otherwise fine and warm, becoming partly cloudy with isolated thundershowers over the northern and central interior, but scattered in the extreme north. The wind along the coast will be light to moderate north-easterly, becoming fresh to strong from the afternoon. ALSO READ: Scattered showers and thundershowers expected in Gauteng on Sunday