In episode 1 of season 15 of Boer Soek ‘n Vrou, Marciel Hopkins makes the journey to some of the most beautiful corners in South Africa to meet the farmers who are looking to find their soul mate. Along the way she has an adventure of her own as she goes on a microlight, feeds Ankole cattle, drives a tractor and spots a hippo checking her out.  ALSO SEE: Trevor Noah’s first ‘Daily Show’ replacement takes centre stage Her first stop is in the Free State near Harrismith where she meets 43-year-old Kotie, who farms with cattle and seed. Farming has been in his family for generations. During their walk in the veld amongst the cattle, Marciel soon finds out that this farmer has a fun sense of humour. Kotie says it would be nice to meet someone who has the same sense of humour and can give him a go at times as well. After her visit in the Free State, Marciel heads to Augrabies in the Northern Cape to meet up with 31-year-old David, who farms with table grapes and citrus. The big farmer says he tries to better himself everyday and dreams about his future wife often. David is looking for an extrovert like himself who doesn’t mind doing spur of the moment things, and even suggests them herself every now and again. The third farmer on Marciel’s ‘road to love’ is also from the Free State. Philru is a 26-year-old cattle farmer near Petrus Steyn. During Marciel’s visit, the 26-year-old jokingly tells her that according to him, no women are born in Petrus Steyn, only men. The young farmer has a sharp tongue and Marciel can’t help but wonder how many times his witty words has landed him in trouble before. Philru is looking for chemistry and butterflies on his quest to finding a partner. ALSO SEE: ‘The Wife’: Hlomu develops a drinking problem while Mqhele’s eye wanders 40-year-old Riaan is a seed farmer in Nigel, Gauteng. He is very passionate about his clivias and says he is looking for a partner who can be active with him and challenge him. The 26-year-old from Ottosdal in North West is an energetic adrenaline junkie who enjoys flying with his microlight. The seed and cattle farmer says he has a lot of love inside him and is just waiting to find the right one to let it all out. Louis says he wants to be a reliable husband to his future wife, and that she should know he will always be there. He adds that his future wife should feel save and content with him and who he is as a person. The 26-year-old game farmer from Limpopo is a second-generation farmer who farms with his father. Louis says farming is his passion and he would like nothing more than to start a family of his own. He says that he has learned that it takes work from both sides to make a relationship work otherwise it won’t work out. The 35-year- traded his office job to become a grain and merino farmer in the Western Cape. Hennie says he is looking for loyalty and honesty in a relationship.  He says his ideal partner is a woman who is comfortable with who she is – someone with a soft heart, but also someone who can stand her own ground.  Marciel also made her way to 34-year-old Cherié from Herbertsdale in the Western Cape, 50-year-old Francois from Oudtshoorn and 29-year-old Rampie from the Northern Cape who all shared the traits they are looking for in a partner.  Watch Boer Soek ‘n Vrou every Thursday night at 8pm on kykNET, channel 144 on DStv.  NOW READ: The Real Housewives of Abuja: Africa gets a new city