Fast food chain Nando’s said it has suspended the manager at its Groblersdal outlet following allegations of alleged sexual misconduct. This comes after the manager reportedly made advances to an employee at the store. Monene Phoebee (@Monene17263040) took to Twitter to share to her ordeal on the social media platform. The post has since garnered hundreds of comments including an official response from Nando’s South Africa. “I lost my job because I refused to sleep with my patrao (manager),” tweeted Phoebee. I lost my job because I refused to sleep with my patrao(manager). ????????@NandosSA @Groblersdal mall— monenephoebee❤ (@Monene17263040) January 8, 2023 In a Twitter thread, Nando’s said it was aware of the claims made by the said employee against the manager. “We are aware of the recent social media post involving staff members from our Groblersdal restaurant.” “We are gravely concerned by the allegations and are taking the incident very seriously and have already commenced a thorough investigation together with the franchise owner, the parties involved as well as our internal teams,” it said. ALSO READ:Ramaphosa: ‘Men are the perpetrators of GBV and they need to change’ Nando’s said it would take “appropriate action once this investigation has ended.” (2/3) We are gravely concerned by the allegations and are taking the incident very seriously and have already commenced a thorough investigation together with the franchise owner, the parties involved as well as our internal teams.— NandosSA (@NandosSA) January 10, 2023 In an update, Nando’s provided the feedback following the investigations. “Following our preliminary investigations today, we have suspended the Groblersdal Manager with immediate effect, pending the results of the ongoing full inquiry,” Nando’s said. Update: Following our preliminary investigations today, we have suspended the Groblersdal Manager with immediate effect, pending the results of the ongoing full inquiry.— NandosSA (@NandosSA) January 10, 2023 Social media users also had their say on the incident mostly praising the outlet for take stern action against the manager. Sibs Koyana tweeted: “Good and decisive actions well done. Next time consider managerial rotation to mitigate such,” while Bhut Shweme said female employees should be interviewed. “Now it’s simple, call all women employees including those who recently lost their jobs and interview them.” However, not everyone agreed with the decision of Nando’s to suspend the manager. Mbonanie said there is two sides to the claims. “How can you suspend the men without the investigation, what if the lady she’s lying?” he tweeted. Sexual harassment in the workplace has become common and is increasing, with over 51 830 sexual offences committed annually, based on a study by the University of South Africa reported the Centre for Violence and Reconciliation.  ALSO READ: Niehaus calls Karyn Maughan a ‘dog’ that must be ‘kicked’ in Twitter rant