With the end of both the Renault Sport and the Megane RS looming, local importer Motus has released price and specification details of the now streamlined Megane RS line-up. Realigned after debuting three years ago, the range now consists of a single RS 300 Trophy model, equipped with the six-speed EDC dual-clutch transmission as the six-speed manual option has been dropped entirely. Despite no reason for this being provided, speculation is that the forthcoming Megane RS Ultime, which will be the farewell model to the Renault Sport designation and the Megane itself, could be offered exclusively with the manual transmission, however, as indicated, nothing has been confirmed just yet. ALSO READ: Is this the ultimate GTI killer? Initially limited to just seven examples when it touched down in South Africa in 2020, a total of 55 units of the Trophy have now been allocated, with a number of changes applied in order to differentiate it from the original. Externally, the revisions consist of redesigned taillight clusters, newly placed Trophy decals at the base of the rear doors and a new checkered flag decal on the front wheel arches. The rest of the exterior carries over unchanged, meaning the RS 300 Trophy is once again mounted on red accented 19-inch diamond-cut Jerez alloy wheels wrapped in Bridgestone Potenza S001 rubber, and available in a choice of three colours; Pearl White, Orange Tonic and Liquid Yellow. Underneath, the Cup chassis, Brembo brakes and Torsen limited slip differential remain, along with the launch control function and 4Control rear-wheel steering system, but the exhaust system has been updated with what Renault calls an intelligent valve design that is supposed to reduce flow resistance, while providing a better soundtrack. Inside, the Renault Sport seats trimmed in Alcantara with red stitching and the seven-inch portrait-style R-Link touchscreen infotainment system with Apple CarPlay and Android Auto continues, along with the Arkamys sound system, dual-zone climate control and cruise control. New though is an aluminium finish for the gear lever and handbrake, plus a new part leather/Alcantara steering wheel resplendent with red 12 o’clock marking as well as Renault’s latest diamond corporate badge. Besides the specification items already mentioned, the Megane RS 300 Trophy comes equipped as standard with all around electric windows, a seven-inch TFT digital instrument cluster, full LED headlights, ambient lightening, a reverse camera with rear parking sensors, folding electric mirrors and the Multi-Sense drive mode selector with three settings; Normal, Sport and Race. Upfront, the stalwart 1.8-litre turbocharged engine, which will also depart once RS production officially ends, produces an unchanged 221kW/400Nm delivered to the front wheels via the mentioned EDC ‘box. Top speed is rated at 260 km/h with 0-100 km/h happening in 5.7 seconds. Now available with Renault South Africa set to announce specification for the Megane RS Ultime during the second quarter of the year, pricing for the updated Megane RS 300 Trophy starts at R899 900 and includes a five-year/90 000 km service plan as well as a five-year/150 000 km warranty.