The Stormers were beaten by a last-gasp try from Argentine winger Sebastian Cancelliere, as they went down 24-17 (halftime 10-12) to Glasgow Warriors in their United Rugby Championship match at the Scotstoun Stadium on Sunday afternoon. The teams were deadlocked at 17-all with time ticking down and Glasgow on attack on the Stormers 22m, when outside centre Sione Tuipulotu stabbed a perfect grubber over the line for Cancelliere to dive on for his second try and the winner in a thrilling match. ALSO READ: Stormers are the benchmark because of quality back-up, depth At the start of play the game got off to a fast start as three tries in the opening quarter saw the lead change three times. The home side opened the scoring after great interplay between wings Sebastian Cancellierie and Kyle Steyn ended with Cancelliere going over for an unconverted score in the corner. The Stormers then responded through hooker Joseph Dweba as he broke off the back of a powerful maul and forced his way over in the corner, with flyhalf Manie Libbok adding the extras. Glasgow almost immediately hit back as eighthman Jack Dempsey made the break, with the ball then slung out to Steyn to stroll over in the corner, with scrumhalf George Horne again wide with the conversion attempt to leave them 10-7 up after 16 minutes.  The see-saw nature of the match continued as the Stormers retook the lead in the 30th minute as they worked their way into the Glasgow 22m and after some concerted pressure it ended with a bullet pass from scrumhalf Paul de Wet to fullback Clayton Blommetjies to score in the corner. Libbok missed the extras to leave the score 12-10, which the visitors managed to hold onto despite a late charge from the hosts. Glasgow then struck first in the second half, taking advantage of dreadful Stormers defence as inside centre Huw Jones brushed off multiple tackle attempts to go over, with Horne adding the extras for a 17-12 lead after 52 minutes. The Stormers then levelled things up in the 63rd minute as they attacked from a lineout, getting close where replacement forward Junior Pokomela picked up and forced his way over. Libbok missed the conversion and compounded his kicking woes by hooking a penalty attempt wide three minutes later which left the sides deadlocked, leading to the thrilling conclusion. Scorers Glasgow Warriors: Tries – Sebastian Cancelliere (2), Kyle Steyn, Huw Jones; Conversions – George Horne, Domingo Miotti Stormers: Tries – Jospeh Dweba, Clayton Blommetjies, Junior Pokomela; Conversion – Manie Libbok