Television host and DJ, Lerato Kganyago, says she is not going to keep quiet in 2023.  The Metro FM host came out swinging late last year, after gossip blogger Musa Khawula made several damning allegations against her.  However, Kganyago says she will continue to speak out this year and denied persistent rumours about the status of her marriage with businessman Thami Ndala.  Going on Instagram Live recently, Kganyago tackled several issues including dismissing false reports and her marital status.  There have been rumours and reports that she and Ndala had split. When asked if she was in a relationship, Kganyago responded: “No I am not in a relationship, I am in a marriage on paper. If you go to Home Affairs, you will see my name is Lerato Kganyago Ndala. I am not married by affiliation. “I am a wife, I have never been divorced.”  There was a report by City Press in November that the couple’s marriage had ended, with the publication further claiming that Kganyago’s husband had opened a case of theft against their domestic worker at the Douglasdale Police Station.  Reports he later denied.  Mrs Ndala also denied claims her husband had an affair.  “This is the year of responding, they hate when I am happy, they are happy when I am sad… Any wrong or false narrative against me, I will fight it. I am tired of being the bigger person. If you treat me like a dog, I will treat you like a dog,” she said.   Kganyago said she “had time” to dismiss rumours such as the ownership rights of her hotel, 12 on Hillel Villa & Spa, in Johannesburg. There were reports she didn’t own the hotel after it was gifted to her by her husband on Valentine’s Day in 2022.  RELATED: Lerato Kganyago clarifies hotel ownership issue with receipts Kganyago also slammed claims made by gossip blogger Khawula, such as her workers weren’t paid and that her husband also hadn’t paid the hotel workers.  Kganyago said she has “removed herself from the establishment” as she wanted to focus on other interests and is no longer involved with 12 on Hillel. Those interests include having her own alcohol brand and admitting she wasn’t passionate about the hospitality industry.  Explaining why she is calling out Khawula, she said: “Anyone that runs or believes what that moron says is just like him, a moron”.  The businesswoman says there is an obsession to have negative reports against her and any positive news reported about her doesn’t get as many views or publicity.