Here’s your morning news update: An easy-to-read selection of our top stories. Stay up to date with The Citizen – More News, Your Way. African National Congress (ANC) deputy president Paul Mashatile is ready to replace David Mabuza if called upon by the ruling party. Mabuza’s decision to decline his nomination at the ANC’s 55th national elective conference cleared the way for Mashatile, who defeated Ronald Lamola and Eastern Cape ANC chairperson Oscar Mabuyane, for the deputy president position. ANC secretary-general Fikile Mbalula recently said whether Mabuza will continue in his role will be known in the two weeks after the incumbent deputy president also failed to make the ruling party’s national committee (NEC). Outgoing Eskom chief executive officer (CEO) André de Ruyter has opened a case of attempted murder, according to reports. De Ruyter registered the case on Thursday, 5 January. “The case can be assumed to be under investigation,” he told energy expert Chris Yelland. The incident took place on 13 December last year, which was a day after De Ruyter resigned as Eskom CEO. Mboneli Vesele, the bodyguard of University of Fort Hare (UFH) vice-chancellor Professor Sakhela Buhlungu, was shot dead on Friday night in what is suspected to have been an assassination attempt. The University’s spokesperson, JP Roodt, said the shooting took place outside the vice-chancellor’s Alice residence. Buhlungu was unharmed, he added. A driver of a petrol tanker had to be rescued from his vehicle after it crashed into bridge on Kliprivier Drive north near the N12 exit, Suideroord, Johannesburg. The accident happened on Saturday after 3pm.  Johannesburg Metropolitan Police Department (JMPD) spokesperson Xolani Fihla said from the preliminary information they received, the tanker crashed and landed on the embankment next to the N12 East. Motorists can breathe a sigh of relief following the Department of Mineral Resources and Energy’s announcement last week, of a substantial drop in the price of petrol and diesel, but this fuel price decrease is sadly not expected to ease food prices in 2023. A litre of 95 unleaded petrol now costs R21.40 inland and R20.75 at the coast thanks to an average Brent Crude oil price decrease from $88.77 per barrel to $85.08 per barrel.  Prince Harry faced a backlash Friday over his memoir “Spare”, with criticism from the media, commentators, army veterans and even the Taliban, while Buckingham Palace kept silent on its widely leaked contents. Days before the official publication on Tuesday, disclosures from the book dominated headlines and airwaves after a Spanish-language version of the memoir mistakenly went on sale in Spain. Khaya Zondo was able to marry the experience he has in domestic cricket with a fighting spirit as he top-scored for the Proteas on another torrid day in their Test series against Australia on Saturday, and he is confident that he and his team-mates can do it again on Sunday’s final day to save the third Test in Sydney. Zondo scored a career-best 39 in nearly two hours at the crease as South Africa struggled to 149/6 in the two sessions that were able to be played on the fourth day.