Veteran striker Thamsanqa Gabuza might find himself being made the sacrificial lamb at SuperSport United as the club looks to draw a balance between the personnel and the budget.ALSO READ: Orlando Pirates looking for new home for Eva Nga?  Gabuza, who has been with The Spartans for four seasons now, will see his contract with the club expire at the season and the side has not offered the marksman an extension. Club head coach, Gavin Hunt, is not sure what will happen to “Ganda-Ganda” and says everything is at the behest of the management. “That’s a budget thing, the age factor but I am not sure if this thing is going to happen (Gabuza moving),” said Hunt. “We have Bradley Grobler, Thabang Sibanyoni and Patrick Maswanganyi and those are three strikers. It is unfortunate but this is football and there are budgets and things like that and we have to work on it. I honestly don’t know how this thing is going to work, I just heard about it.“He is a big personality but clubs have to move on when they get older. I am not saying we must get rid of him now, but Bradley is also in his 30s and you need to look at the future. If we keep him now, that’s fantastic but in six months’ time, it will be a different story,” said Hunt, as Gabuza will celebrate his 36th birthday in July.  “Old players don’t take much time to age, they age in weeks. I can’t be selling a player like Teko Modise and I can’t get in a player like Elias Pelembe,” said Hunt, who reminisced of his first spell at SuperSport when he would sell a quality player and quickly snap up an equally talented player in the market.” ALSO READ: Mokwena still wants more as Sundowns smash top flight record In recent times, Gabuza was under the radar of AmaZulu but word has it that Royal AM are among those who are keen to have the services of the former Bafana Bafana striker.  Gabuza previously turned out for Golden Arrows early in his career before he went on to spend six seasons with Orlando Pirates. In close to 200 top flight games, the striker has banged in 45 goals in league and cup competitions.