Zanzibar. Mlandege Football Club were on Friday night rewarded a cash prize of Sh35 million and given gold medals for winning the Mapiduzi Cup. The team managed to beat Singida Big Stars 2-1 in the final match of the tournament at the Amaan Stadium in Zanzibar. Mlandege FC’s two goals were scored in the first half of the game through Bashima Saul Saite in the 18th minute and the team captain Abdulnassil Asaa Gamal shortly before the end of the first half. Singida Big Stars’ goal was netted in by Francy Kazadi, who also won the tournament’s golden boot award after scoring six goals. Zanzibar President Dr Hussein Ali Mwinyi presented the trophy plus a Sh35 million cash prize to Mlandege FC’s captain Gamal for winning the tittle and awarded the players with gold medals while Singida Big Stars were rewarded Sh20 million and given silver medals. Apart from the cash prize, trophy and gold medals, the team’s owners, Abdulsatar Daudi and Kamal Manji, will reward the players and the team officials with motorcycles. The record shows that the tournament was mainly dominated by the Mainland Tanzania teams including Azam FC who won the title five times, Simba SC (three times) while Yanga and Mtibwa Sugar won two times each. Zanzibar’s teams namely Jamhuri of Pemba, Polisi, KMKM, Mafunzo, Malindi and Miembeni won the title once each. Also, Uganda’s Kampala City Council Authority (KCCA) and Uganda Revenue Authority (URA) won the title once each. Mlandege FC faced an uphill task to win the title for the first time in their history after they drew 1-1 against KVZ and eliminated the then defending champions of the tournament, Simba SC by 1-0. The Zanzibar based team also kicked out Namungo FC on 5-1 penalties after drawing 1-1 in the regulation time in the semifinal encounter to qualify for the epic final against Singida Big Stars. Mlandege FC head coach Mohammed Abdallah ‘Bares’ said his committed players, technical bench and the team’s strong leadership were the key to the team’s success in the tournament. Bares said his players did their job well and deserved compliments because no football fan had thought that they would win the title against top teams in the tournament. “Nothing is impossible under the Sun. I told my players to play with determination in order to achieve our goal. Their spirit was very high to reach the highest peak of the competition. “We are now celebrating by reaping the good fruits of the plant that we sowed. I thank my players, the team leadership and the technical bench for their good cooperation that made Mlandege FC sparkle,” said Bares. He said the same spirits are now turned on the Zanzibar premier league and our focus is to win the title. 