Bienvenu Eva Nga’s future at Orlando Pirates looks very dim following the signing of Cameroonian striker Marou Souaibou.  ALSO READ: Brilliant Pirates thump Stellies Eva Nga, who also happens to be Cameroonian, is likely to be sent out on loan, Mgosi Squad’s sources have revealed. Phakaaathi reported a few months ago that the club’s technical team were unhappy with Eva Nga and would assess him.  And if there is no improvement, he would then be sent out on loan or released completely.  Eva Nga signed with Pirates at the beginning of the season from Chippa United and while he got game time at the beginning of the season, he has failed to make an impression.  “It does not look like he has a place in the team and is likely to be shipped out,” said a source. “I heard the team is looking at options for him and have made him available to teams who wish to have him. No takers have come out so far.” Pirates also added the experienced Ndumiso Mabena after he impressed the coaches during a training spell.  Mabena has overtaken Eva Nga in the pecking order and now makes the match day squad with Kermit Erasmus and Evidence Makgopa.  Souaibou is also expected to make the team next weekend as he would have trained with them for two weeks by then.  Pirates still also have Zakhele Lepasa who is nursing a minor injury and has shown signs of improvement earlier in the season.  The Soweto giants are well equipped up front and have already released Kwame Peprah to Maritzburg United on loan to make space for Souaibou. Pirates have also hired Scott Chikhelday as their striker’s coach and it is believed he has made a difference in the side’s attack.   The Buccaneers are expected to sign an international goalkeeper and Eva Nga will be the one sacrificed to make the foreigner spot available. The side has been looking for a solid keeper to compete with Richard Ofori who is spending more time in the doctor’s rooms than on the field these days. They have Siyabonga Mpontshane and Sipho Chaine but none of them have impressed in Ofori’s absence.