Limpopo police arrested and charged a 67-year-old man after a woman attacked by his dogs died in hospital a few days after the attack. The elderly man made his first court appearance and is expected back in the Senwabarwana Magistrate’s Court on Thursday. Two days before Christmas Day, Melitta Sekole, 43, of Senwabarwana village was reportedly walking when she was attacked by two dogs believed to be pit bulls, provincial police spokesperson Colonel Malesela Ledwaba said. “The dogs ripped off her clothes and bit her severely. She was rescued by community members and taken to hospital in a critical condition,” Ledwaba told News24. ALSO READ: Pit bull saves owners and foils robbery attempt in Mpumalanga The woman was later transferred to a provincial hospital in Polokwane where she succumbed to the injuries on 27 December. Ledwaba said a case of culpable homicide was opened and the suspect, identified as Nchabeleng Charles Sekole and the dogs’ owner, was subsequently arrested. There has been a spate of pit bull attacks on children in South Africa, where pit bulls have mauled children and even adults to death. Many owners of the feared breed surrendered their dogs to the NSPCA as calls mounted to have pit bulls banned. According to a statement released by the animal care organisation, there was an influx of owners surrendering in communities to NSPCA centres in recent weeks. Where owners have not surrendered their pit bulls, the communities are beginning to take matters into their own hands. “Animals are being poisoned, stabbed, beaten, and set alight in retaliation by angry communities.” “The NSPCA does not receive funding from the government. In addition, to the vital work that we are already providing to their communities on limited resources, we are faced with dealing with this issue alone as well. “The NSPCA movement is taking action at great risk and cost to assist animals and communities,” read the statement. NOW READ: NSPCA bears the brunt of the war on pit bulls