The South African Weather Service (SAWS) has issued a yellow level 2 warning for severe thunderstorms, which can possibly lead to large amounts of small hail, strong winds and excessive lightning, over the north eastern parts of the Northern Cape, extreme west of the North-West province, and west of theFree State, on Wednesday. According to the weather service, residents in these areas should watch out for:  Free State Tomorrow 's Weather overview: 25.1.2023 pic.twitter.com/4t2pljIayv— SA Weather Service (@SAWeatherServic) January 24, 2023 Gauteng: Fine and warm, becoming partly cloudy with isolated late afternoon showers and thundershowers. The expected UVB sunburn index: very high. Mpumalanga: Partly cloudy, windy and warm, becoming cloudy from the afternoon with isolated showers and thundershowers but scattered along the escarpment. It will be hot in places in the Lowveld. Limpopo: Cloudy along the escarpment in the morning, otherwise partly cloudy, windy and warm to hot but very hot in the Western Bushveld. Isolated evening showers and thundershowers are expected in the south-east. ALSO READ: Farmers in dire need of rain to save crops damaged by extreme heat North West: Partly cloudy and hot with isolated showers and thundershowers. Free State: Cloudy in the east until late morning, otherwise partly cloudy and warm to hot, with isolated showers and thundershowers, but scattered in the east. It will be windy in the east. Northern Cape: Fine in the central parts, otherwise partly cloudy and hot to very hot, with isolated showers and thundershowers in the east. The wind along the coast will be light to moderate south-westerly becoming strong southerly to south-easterly in the afternoon. Western Cape: Fine in the west, otherwise partly cloudy and cool to warm, clearing from the afternoon. The wind along the coast will be moderate south-westerly in the south at first, otherwise fresh to strong easterly to south-easterly. The expected UVB sunburn index: Extreme. Western half of the Eastern Cape: Cloudy and cool with isolated showers of rain. The wind along the coast will be moderate south-westerly, becoming light to moderate easterly by the afternoon. Eastern half of the Eastern Cape: Cloudy and cool with isolated showers and thundershowers,but rain along the coast. The wind along the coast will be moderate south-westerly, becoming light to moderate easterly to north-easterly by the afternoon. KwaZulu-Natal: Cloudy and cool but warm in the north where it will be partly cloudy. Scattered showers and thundershowers are expected, but widespread along the coast and adjacent interior. The wind along the coast will be moderate to fresh southerly to south-westerly, becoming moderate south-easterly in places by evening The expected UVB sunburn index: High. ALSO READ: Heatwave warning: Take precautions, as temperatures could reach 40°C