After years of struggle and strife for Dintle (Mapaseka Koetle-Nyokong) from the eTV soapie Scandal!, her life finally seems to be coming together.  Not only has she reunited with her long-lost daughter Motshabi and come to a peaceful place in their relationship, she also seems to have found the love of her life in Reggie (Makhaola Ndebele). Now, the pair are set for a beautiful white wedding scheduled for 24 January. Well-known actor Makhaola Ndebele joined the hit e.tv soapie in the role of Reggie last October.  He came on board as an art tutor to Dintle’s daughter Khanyi Jewel.  Producers describe Reggie as good-looking, old-fashioned and a gentleman to just about everyone.  “Measured and always neatly dressed, Reggie’s wealth allowed him to retire fairly young although he chooses to live a surprisingly modest life. After retirement, he took up a hobby he had always been interested in, painting.  Location ???? Kwa #LoveLivesHere! #etvscandal pic.twitter.com/Sjklc1PQBF— Scandal! (@etvScandal) December 1, 2022 Reggie now teaches youngsters to draw and he has nurtured great relationships with his students. Although he’s no stranger to personal misfortune, the battle scars are hardly visible. Instead, they’ve refined him into a man of exemplary politeness. In short, quite the gentleman. Viewers did not initially get this vibe from Reggie as many took to social media to say that they do not trust him. Others speculated that he may be revealed to be Dintle’s father.  I dnt trust this Art teacher. I dont… Khon ntwe off #etvScandal— TheResolute (@ThandoMali) November 8, 2022 #etvScandalI have a bad feeling about the art teacher ????— ????BELLA❤ (@Isa_Viya) November 3, 2022 In the months since he joined Scandal!, fans have watched his love for Dintle blossom and grow and now the couple is set to take the next big step together. Viewers are invited to join the celebrations when Dintle and Reggie get married on Tuesday, 24 January 2023, only on eTV (DStv channel 194).  Oh Wow I guess We Were WRONG about Reggie…#etvScandal— GontseLeroleFan (@FanGontse) November 23, 2022 A lot seems to be going on for Mapaseka. Not only will she be taking Dintle’s story forward in a beautiful way with the wedding, the actress behind the role will also be embodying a new role in a comedy about life after divorce called Lenyalo ha se Papadi. The 13-episode comedy follows the drama that ensues after Desmond (Meshack Magabane) and Mpho (Mapaseka Koetle) decide to end their marriage, and try to navigate a new life of co-parenting, family, finances and attempting to date – all while still living under the same roof.  In addition to award winners Mavuso Magabane and Pasi Koetle, the cast of Lenyalo ha se Papadi includes both established names as well as up-and-comers.  Viewers can expect to see the likes of screen legend Clementine Mosimane, Nomzamo ‘Zamo’ Dlamini, Mandla Gauduka, Nicholas Nkuna, Lindokuhle Mbonani, Siphiwe Ngcongwane and Thando Dunjani. Lenyalo ha se Papadi premieres on Monday, 9 January 2023, at 8pm, on DStv Channel 161.  READ NEXT: Magabane and Mapaseka Koetle headline new comedy about life after divorce