1Magic viewers are set to be treated to a new a star-studded dramedy when Grown Woman airs on the channel this Friday.  “They say life begins at 40, but for Tina Hlatshwayo, life begins at 49, a year into widowhood – and with a much younger, very hot new lover. But how will her family and friends react to her newfound groove?” reads part of the synopsis for the show.  Produced by Red Pepper Pictures, the series stars award-winning and celebrated Linda Sokhulu (Housekeepers, Umkhokha) as Tina.  Joining her are Bohang Moeko (Ring of Lies, The Queen); Sandile Mahlangu (Isithembiso, Noughts and Crosses); Bahumi Mhlongo (Living the Dream with Somizi, Dream: The Lebo Mathosa Story); Nandi Nyembe (Isibaya, Reyka); and Hlubi Mboya (It’s Complicated). “Friday nights on 1Magic have become the home of edgy, boundary-pushing shows about women taking charge of their lives and narratives. We’re excited to keep this genre going and to push it forward with the premiere of Grown Woman, and we can’t wait for our audiences to engage with it,” commented Shirley Adonisi, Director of Local Entertainment Channels at M-Net. “After the death of her husband Sbu, Tina – known to many as ‘Mrs H’ – has to learn a new way of living, not just for her two children (Sakhile, played by Mahlangu, and Noxee, played by Mhlongo), but for herself. “Having been married for 25 years, she spent all her time balancing work and home, but with the children grown and her husband gone, it’s time for her to look inwards and figure out who she is and what makes her happy,” explained 1Magic in a statement.  On this new journey, she encounters a handsome, much younger man, Rakwena (fondly known as ‘Ra’, and played by Moeko), who helps her rediscover herself and brings about a much-needed sexual awakening.All that’s left for viewers of Grown Woman is to follow Tina on her journey to see how her loved ones will react to her changing lifestyle. According to 1Magic, Grown Woman is the story of self-rediscovery, but it’s also the story of family, love, grief and adventure.  The series premieres on 1Magic (DStv Channel 103) on 3 February 2023 at 9h30 pm. Compiled by Kaunda Selisho READ NEXT: Meet the ‘Love & Hip Hop SA’ cast