A Nairobi woman who was reportedly caught making love with her boyfriend in the middle of Thika Highway, in the process causing traffic jam, has on Thursday January 26, been fined Sh400,000 (KSh20,000) in default to serve a six-month jail term, Kenyan media has reported .  The motorist  was  sentence by a after she pleaded guilty to the charges of causing a disturbance and obstructing traffic at Thika Road Mall in Roysambu on  Tuesday, January 24, 2023. It was not stated the exact time the two love birds were caught in the rather shameful act. The prosecution informed the court that the accused person was arrested by traffic officers from Kasarani Police Station who were manning the road near the Thika Road Mall.  The court heard that on the fateful date, the traffic officers manning the road were drawn to the traffic snarl-up and immediately sought to establish the cause of the jam.  Upon approaching the accused person's motor vehicle, they found the woman in a compromising situation with a man in their car, which was stopped in the middle of the road. It remains unclear why the two opted to have sex along a busy road.  The prosecution informed the court that the officers politely interrupted the session and asked the two lovebirds to move to driveway but were faced with hostility.  "Enraged by the police request to drive away, the accused person began hurling insults at the officers who were armed and even reportedly dared them to open fire," the prosecutor stated while reading the facts surrounding the case. Further, the court heard that the officers immediately lodged a report of the drama that unfolded at the Kasarani Police Station. Their boss immediately sent reinforcement who overpowered the two lovers and were immediately arrested.  The accused was booked and asked to appear in court to answer to charges levelled against her. Asked by the court whether the facts of the case were correct, she agreed to the same.  In mitigation, the woman urged the court to forgive her saying she is remorseful and will never repeat the acts again.  However, the magistrate fined her Sh200,000 for each offence or an alternative of six months imprisonment. 