Voice-over artist and South African radio veteran Bongani Njoli has died aged 54.  He died on Sunday and the cause of his death has not yet been disclosed, however, e.tv confirmed the news of his passing in a statement. Described as “the most recognisable voice of our Friday Action Night movie promos and weekend blockbusters,” e.tv hailed Bongs (as he was affectionately known by many) as a true legend and part of the e family for 17 years. “Everyone at the e.tv family is deeply saddened by the sudden loss of Bongani Njoli,” read part of a statement issued by eMedia.  “His untimely passing comes as a shock, he was in the studio with us in December 2022 for a new movie campaign. But unfortunately, as he was too weak to record, we put the campaign on hold. “A part of our history is gone with his passing, but we will forever remember him as ‘the voice’ – our voice. Those of us who worked closely with him will sorely miss Bongani’s easy-going, gentle manner and utter professionalism,” added the channel.  You never went down without a fight. Our hearts are broken ????????️???? Your voice will never be forgotten. Lala Ngoxolo Bongani Njoli ????️ pic.twitter.com/ZodTLkOfaV— @etv (@etv) January 23, 2023 e.tv’s Bennum van Jaarsveld added that the team at e have reached out to Bongani Njoli’s family to make a contribution towards the funeral cost. Twitter is littered with tributes for the late voice over artist, with most of them coming from people who worked with him.  “Tonight, only on e!’ He was the voice that so many grew up listening to. A gentle soul no longer! I spent so many hours job shadowing at Goodhope FM and hours talking in person when we walked past each at the old Kloof Studios. RIP-ower #BonganiNjoli a UNIQUE voice no more,” tweeted sport presenter Gershawn Coetzee.  & there was a brother by the name of Bongani Njoli, who was the voice over artist for @etv for the longest time. His voice became the theme to so many show promos & segments on @etv. The soundtrack & voice to many childhoods. A legend you never knew that you needed to know. ???????? pic.twitter.com/xb49g73zNR— Ralph (@Ralphology_) November 10, 2022 Rest In Peace To My Uncle Bongani Njoli Better Known As The "Etv Guy" Who Played A Huge Father Role In My Life. Lala Ngoxolo Thangane, Krila Mbamba, Rhaso, Nkomo Zibomvu… pic.twitter.com/ZQq5NlqzWb— Ghost (@SiyaSibaca) January 22, 2023 A Legend gone to soon. RIP former @GoodHopeFM and @Magic828music presenter Bongani Njoli. He was also the voice of @etv. RIP Legend ???? pic.twitter.com/0xnusAglGI— Real Steven Taylor (@StevenTaylorSA) January 22, 2023 READ NEXT: New changes to e.tv prime time, international shows dropped