Dar es Salaam. The government has dispatched a team of 11 experts to the Songwe, Mbeya, and Ruvuma districts to prevent cholera from entering the country, it was revealed yesterday. The decision was made in response to reports that the disease had claimed the lives of 661 people in Malawi, a nation that borders the aforementioned regions. Going by the official data from Malawi’s Health ministry, until Thursday a total of 19,629 people had been confirmed to contract the highly contagious and deadly communicable disease. Speaking to The Citizen’s sister paper, Mwananchi, the acting head of communication in the ministry of Health, Mr Said Makora, said the ministry has sent medical doctors, specialists in epidemic diseases and environmental health officers to the three regions. The experts, he expounded, were sent to the districts of Ileje (Songwe), Kyela (Mbeya) and Mbambabay (Ruvuma). “Our experts are providing capacity building training to the district and regional health committees on how to identify cholera patients using a rapid test,” he revealed. The team of experts, he added, will also help the respective regions to improve the information management system that involves collection, processing, analysis and dissemination of information. He said the Health ministry was cooperating with other authorities like the Immigration Department and Police Force in ensuring that citizens abided by the disease prevention procedures.  “So far, we don’t have any patients. We got one case in November 2022 but the patient was treated and fully recovered,” recounted Mr Makora. Mbeya Regional Commissioner Juma Homera directed district commissioners in his region and District Executive Directors (DEDs) to take precautionary measures. “The question of cleanliness should be given a priority. Leaders of the areas that will be reported to have a patient will be made accountable,” he warned. Mbeya constituency Member of Parliament Tulia Ackson seemed to have been reading from the same script, saying the question of cleanliness to be given a top priority and that it was not going to be an option, but a must. “It should begin with leaders at the district level. You should not wait until top leaders issue directives for you to act,” Dr Ackson, who doubles as the National Assembly Speaker told government leaders in Mbeya. She added: “It is bad for top leaders to call for cleanliness in the presence of DEDs, environmental officers and local government chairmen. We will hold those who are not doing their part accountable.”