Reigning Miss South Africa Ndavi Nokeri has started her journey of hopefully becoming the next Miss Universe.  Nokeri hopes to follow in the footsteps of fellow Miss SAs who have won the coveted pageant, such as Zozibini Tunzi in 2019 and Demi-Leigh Tebow in 2017.  Miss SA 2021, Lalela Mswane, was crowned the second princess at Miss Universe in Israel last year.  Nokeri left South African shores last week for a trip of a lifetime to participate in Miss Universe 2023 which will take place in New York City.  The Limpopo native left the country on New Year’s day but landed in New York a few days later.  She wrote at the time: “Leaving South Africa with a heart so filled with love knowing that my people will be right there with me! “Cannot wait to take you all on this once in a lifetime journey!” The pageant queen has been sharing her preparations with her over 214 000 followers on Instagram with the help of the Miss South Africa organisation.  She has proudly been showing off the country’s flag in iconic places in New York such as Times Square. Nokeri also shared that her roommate is a fellow African queen, Miss Namibia Cassias Harpley.  Pageant queens across the world have been preparing behind the scenes for their biggest night.  This includes shooting fashion videos for the final show with Ndavi Nokeri meeting Miss India, Divita Rai, Miss Italy, Virginia Stablum and so many more.  ALSO READ: PICS: Miss SA Ndavi Nokeri’s 5 most stunning evening wear The finale of Miss Universe will take place next Sunday, January 15.  Miss SA organisation revealed in December 2022 the national costume Ndavi will wear in the Miss Universe pageant.  The costume is designed by celebrated designer Sello Medupe of Scalo Designs who also designed the national costume for Thato Mosehle at Miss Supranational last year. It is inspired by Nokeri’s Tsonga culture including representing Africa as the wings are built by Henk Henderson of Henderson Worx. READ NEXT: Tsonga by birth, African at heart: Miss SA’s national costume explained