It appears that the best friends duo, Bonang Matheba and her cousin, DJ Pinky Girl (real name Tebogo Mekgwe), are at loggerheads.  The pair are usually inseparable and this has been seen in their posts on their social media and Bonang’s reality show Being Bonang. However, this love and support for each other has whittled down over the last few years.  The two vented their frustrations on Twitter for the whole world to see this week. In the past, people have played on the term that Pinky, who has tried to make a career in music, is just Bonang’s “handbag”.  The discourse started on Monday, when Bonang tweeted a read-between-the-lines post, which read: “She has a visa, but isn’t vaccinated! I’m tayad [tired]! Bonang didn’t say who she was referring to, however, Pinky Girl responded to the tweet in a passive-aggressive manner.  “WOW is it me again??? I’m tayad too. [The] model is vaccinated. Safe travel[s].”  Bonang further vented her frustration at people who are unable to travel the world because they are not vaccinated.  ALSO READ: B*Dazzled: Bonang Matheba is reviving her YouTube channel She wrote: “Missing out on trips around the world because you’re unvaccinated. Ridiculous”. The ‘Queen B’, as she is affectionately known, revealed she needs to go to the United States of America and travelling to this country you need to be vaccinated.  …she has a visa, but isn’t vaccinated!! ???????????????????????????????????????????? I’m tayad!— Bonang Matheba ???? (@Bonang) January 23, 2023 Pinky Girl aired her frustrations on Tuesday saying she was tired as well and has been quiet for too long.  Moghel is vaccinated. And she has her Vaccination Certificate. And not going anywhere…????✨????✌️❤️— Pinkygirl ???????? (@tebogopinkygirl) January 24, 2023 The reality star then claimed she had been blocked, unfollowed and “dragged” for no reason. Comments Bonang did not respond to, as the presenter tweeted she had taken her flight to the US.  That’s just being Shallow…from being dragged , unfollowed and blocked for no reason while I’m pushing the love. ????????— Pinkygirl ???????? (@tebogopinkygirl) January 24, 2023 Pinky Girl appeared on all three seasons of Being Bonang’s reality show before the show was stopped on 1Magic in 2019. Viewers got to see how close Bonang and Pinky Girl are, through their highs and lows. They repeatedly attend events together including holidays.  Fans weren’t happy to see their beef or misunderstanding taken to social media. While others commented that Pinky Girl was “ungrateful” for the career afforded to her by Bonang.  I hope they'll solve it outside Twitter because it won't end good if we get involve.. You guys know each other deeply so opening up to her about how you feel is better than throwing knives ko public platform. Love and light Pinkza ????????️— I AM SHE???????? (@StemyHun) January 24, 2023 U are just being ungrateful towards the genuine care sis bonang gives u…. u just like the rest, ungrateful towards her and hiding ur jealousy under her loudness and her way of being blunt ..???? from the beginning she was carrying u behind her back, hv some respect..— Begonia&Marigold (@God_dessAnna) January 24, 2023 @Ncube4Happiness and the plot thickens— TshifhiwaThemba (@tshifmat) January 25, 2023 Pinky doesn't want to go anywhere because wow???????????? pic.twitter.com/x0AgvizQUv— That Fat Bitch ???? (@ntombikayise_01) January 24, 2023