After an announcement teasing South Africa’s own adaptation of the globally popular Love & Hip Hop franchise, MTV Africa has finally revealed which local stars have been tapped to be part of the cast of the upcoming reality show.  The channel will pull back the curtain on the lives of some of South Africa’s favourite Hip hop artists with the launch of Love & Hip Hop South Africa (SA) this Valentines month.  “Known for showcasing Hip Hop stardom juggling their careers, relationships and family dynamics, the global Hip Hop reality show features some of the most prominent Hip Hop artists as they unveil the ins and outs of the music industry. This time, South African artists are in the spotlight with Love & Hip Hop SA set to premiere 27 February on MTV Africa (DStv Channel 130) at 9:30pm CAT.   “The local adaptation of the globally recognised reality show franchise will hold nothing back to bring the 411 on the latest in entertainment, and industry beef and drama,” promised MTV in a statement. Leading the cast are: Recording artist and record producer  Da L.E.S  aka ‘The North God’ Award winning Hip Hop star Gigi Lamayne  Utatakho hit-maker Yanga Chief (previously signed to Da L.E.S’ record label F2D, leaving under questionable circumstances). He is no stranger to the MTV stable after ranking third on MTV Base Hottest MC list in 2019.  YOU MIGHT ALSO LIKE: Why everyone thinks Bonang and Pinky Girl have beef Adding some sizzle to the mix is Shane Eagle, who will not only give us a glimpse into how he became a South African Music Award winner for Best Hip Hop Album in 2018, but also some saucy secrets to maintaining a 12-year-long romance with artist and model Nicole ‘Nikki’ Swartz.  Mayo hitmaker, self-proclaimed “Hip Hop culturalist” and broadcaster DJ Speedsta and Motswako First Lady Fifi Cooper add their names to the reality star cast that will be part of the 13-episode tale of the cast’s love lives, personal struggles, industry goals, achievements as well as their deepest temptations.   In addition to the SA Hip Hop superstars, Love & Hip Hop SA, will also feature sensational starlet Money Badoo.  According to MTV, “Outspoken rapper, singer and songwriter J Molley, who is never too shy to stir the pot with his opinions about life and Hip Hop, will be in true form with his outspoken personality and giving viewers a glimpse into how he’s progressing with his battle with mental health alongside his girlfriend, Elana”. When asked what viewers should expect from the first ever Love & Hip Hop SA Gigi Lamayne said: “There’s a lot to look forward to. A highlight for me was confronting the Gigi Lamayne versus Fifi Cooper situation that has been looming for the longest time within South African Hip Hop when it comes to female rappers. Apart from that, I have been a staunch follower of the franchise for the longest time, and I always imagined myself to be on the show, so I am very excited for this experience”.  DA L.E.S said; “The current state of South African Hip Hop is beautiful, and this platform will really allow me to share my knowledge on the industry. We have a very rich African Hip Hop culture and I am looking forward to offering my space and showing the trials and tribulations I’ve been through in the industry. Love & Hip Hop SA is the best place to do it”.  “This is the most exciting front-row seat to the real lives of some of South Africa’s most talented Hip Hop stars making both local and international headlines. We are proud and excited to bring this global format to Africa.  “The Mzansi version of the popular Love & Hip Hop franchise will have viewers on the edge of their seats, and importantly become yet another Paramount Africa platform to export our talent internationally,” commented senior vice president and general manager, Paramount Africa and Lead, BET International, Monde Twala. MTV also promises that executive producers Vuyisa Xaba and Lindiwe Magubane and director Mohube Rapodile from Idea Collective Productions will be rolling out the red carpet for the first episode, as DA L.E.S and Yanga individually prepare to host events that are both said to light up Johannesburg’s Summer in the first episode.  Additionally, viewers will get to see Gigi Lamayne and new starlet Money Badoo catch up for a “business talk” that reveals a lot about their careers.  Lastly, Love & Hip Hop SA brings the drama with the storyline of the troublesome trio of DJ Speedsta, Yanga and Da L.E.S finally being revealed. READ NEXT: Pee Diddy: Rap mogul renamed after girlfriend admits to enjoying golden showers