The government of Tanzania has demystified terror attack threats and civil unrest reports that have spread in the last few days saying the country is safe. In a statement released by the government spokesperson, Tanzania said it had noted with great concern the false claims spread by foreign institutions. “The government of Tanzania has noted with great concern the false claims spread by some foreign institution that there is civil unrest in the in Tanzania,” reads the government spokes person’s statement.   It further added: We wish to assure all embassies, international organisations, companies, institutions, foreigners and the General public that Tanzania’s territory is safe and there is no civil unrest or threat of terrorist attacks. According to the spokesperson Tanzania’s agencies are vigilant enough to ensure the safety and protection of individuals and their properties. Though the spokesperson did not name the institutions, on Friday January 27,  the Royal Dutch Airlines –KLM director of Eastern and Southern Africa Pier Luigi Vigada announced that the airline was cancelling flights to Tanzania due to social unrest. “We regret to inform you that KL567/27 JAN is cancelled due to social unrest and crew unavailability at DAR. We will keep you informed on the weekend flight operations in the course of the day,” wrote the director. A similar statement was posted regarding flights in Kenya, something that the Kenyan government has termed as unacceptable. The Dutch Airline’s statement has not been in isolation, on January 25, 2022, the US embassy through its website warned of a potential terrorist attack in the commercial capital Dar es Salaam The embassy warned that locations frequented by US citizens and other Westerners in Dar es Salaam and elsewhere in Tanzania "continued to be attractive targets to terrorists planning to conduct attacks." “Terrorist groups could attack with little or no warning, targeting hotels, embassies, restaurants, malls and markets, police stations, places of worship, and other places frequented by Westerners,” the embassy said in the statement published on their website. In its response, the police force said any major threats that would worry citizens are under control. 