Ex-ActionSA Gauteng leader, Abel Tau, is taking his former employer to court after his membership was terminated in November 2021. The former MMC for Human Settlements in Tshwane was fired from ActionSA following allegations of attempted sexual harassment and misconduct against him. Tau, who has maintained his innocence, has decided to take the legal route to challenge his expulsion from ActionSA. The former MMC believes the termination of his membership was irrational because the chairperson of ActionSA’s disciplinary panel had not recommended the move. He has argued that he had not been found guilty internally of attempted sexual assault and has since asked the courts to set aside ActionSA’s decision. “This is done on the basis of principle. I think it’s very important that the record is set straight because one cannot move on to the next chapter of their life without unresolved issues,” he told Newzroom Afrika on Tuesday. ALSO READ: Abel Tau maintains he is not guilty of rape, takes legal action against ActionSA He said ActionSA’s conclusion that he brought the party into disrepute was “utter nonsense”. “In fact, in that hearing I wanted clarity on the charges and it was clear to see that if you are not found [guilty] or if you cannot [find] that the allegations are true then there’s nothing to answer for.” Despite the court action, Tau indicated that he has no intention of returning to ActionSA even if the court ruled in his favour because the former MMC launched his own political party. He confirmed on Tuesday that the United Africans Transformation (UAT), which is backed by the International Pentecostal Holiness Church (IPHC), will contest the 2024 elections. South Africa #LetsGetItRight this time.Vote #UAT2024#unlockchange pic.twitter.com/yeMKJXUQ6M— United Africans Transformation (@UAT2023) January 13, 2023 Sunday World previously reported that Tau was facing a police investigation after the his friend’s wife laid a criminal complaint against him, claiming she was sexually assaulted. It was alleged that the incident took place at Tau’s home in Pretoria, after he was bingeing on alcohol with his friend, who is also an ActionSA member. According to the publication, when the friend passed out after having too many drinks, Tau called the wife to fetch him. When she arrived, Tau allegedly made sexual advances on the woman and attempted to force himself on her, but she turned him down. READ MORE: ‘I was not forced to resign’: ActionSA’s Tshwane caucus leader Abel Tau steps down Tau has repeatedly denied the allegations levelled against him. “I have always maintained that GBV [gender-based violence] is a very big problem in our country and no should be seen to be above the law. In fact, I advocate that when there is wrongdoing people must face the might of the law and, therefore, I will subject myself to all process,” he said. “I have absolute faith in the justice system, but equally we cannot use such a sensitive issue to play around with and settle political scores. I think it is despicable and it’s dirty politics. I am confident I will be proven innocent, we have got evidence.” Additional reporting by Thapelo Lekabe.