5G, a new generation of fast mobile network technology, is becoming more widely available in South Africa but to take advantage of it, you need a 5G-ready phone.  5G was a premium feature found only on the most expensive phones just as recently as 18 months ago, however, the technology has evolved at such a fast pace that there are now value-for-money phones that support 5G. These devices also offer immersive displays, a high-resolution triple camera experience, high-speed processors and many other features befitting of a more expensive device.  TCL – the communication company behind brands like TCL, Alcatel and BlackBerry – recently shared what to look for if you want to buy a 5G Android smartphone that offers the ideal balance of affordability and fast mobile internet. Your budget is the obvious place to start when you’re looking to choose which 5G device to get.  With prices ranging from R8 000 to R25 000-plus, you might think you’re priced out of the market as a mid-range smartphone user. But there are some great options available for below R4 000.  The great thing about buying a 5G smartphone at this price point is that it could easily last you the next four to five years. If you’re getting a 5G device, you are probably a person who appreciates rich media and gaming applications.  Look for a smartphone that offers enough RAM and processing power to ensure a smooth user experience on your apps.  Phones built on platforms like the MediaTek Dimensity 700 processor offer great performance at a price that won’t break the bank. This technology supports new heights of heavy multitasking and intense gaming modes. You should expect nothing less from a mid-range 5G phone than a capable triple camera on the rear of the phone and a high-quality selfie camera.  YOU MIGHT ALSO LIKE: 5 Ways 5G will affect your experience with future mobile apps A 13-megapixel (MP) Triple Camera captures unforgettable moments with competitive detail and clarity.  If you’re into photography, look for a dedicated depth lens and macro lens to add versatility for portraits and close-ups. A display that offers razor-sharp clarity, increased contrast, and crisper definition makes a big difference to your experience.  To enjoy crisp media, video calls and gaming, you will want an HD+ Display with true-to-life colours and a high refresh rate.  Depending on your needs, you may also appreciate a larger (6.5 inch-plus) screen. Especially in these times of remote work and load shedding, you need a 5G smartphone that can get through the day without needing to recharge.  Look for a device that delivers all-day performance as well as safe fast charging. READ NEXT: Five affordable phones with fast-charging capability Compiled by Kaunda Selisho