The struggling Lions face a massive make or break Challenge Cup clash against the Dragons at Rodney Parade in Newport on Sunday afternoon, which is increasingly looking to be a season defining game for the team. It has been a season breaking past month for the Lions, with them suffering three heavy defeats in the United Rugby Championship (URC), and then suffering a tight Challenge Cup loss against Stade Francais in Paris last weekend. ALSO READ: Lions inability to capitalise on chances led directly to Stade Francais defeat That has led to the Lions sliding down into the bottom half of the URC table, and also needing to pick up at least two points against the Dragons to qualify for the Challenge Cup knock-outs. A loss against the Dragons could thus prove catastrophic for the Lions, in terms of their season, as it would be extremely demoralising on a team that is already in dire straits. If the Lions don’t qualify for the Challenge Cup knock-outs it would be a huge setback, as they have aspirations of playing in the Champions Cup, so they should be targeting a strong run in the lower division competition. Their chances of finishing in the top eight of the URC, which would give them a chance of qualifying for the Champions Cup, took a big blow with their past three losses against the Sharks, Stormers and Munster, and they now face a vitally important away game against Connacht in Galway next weekend. This weekend’s Challenge Cup encounter is thus significant in the Lions trying to break a four match losing streak, qualifying for the competition knock-outs, and building some confidence and momentum to take into their next URC match. The Lions have yet to lose to the Dragons in three games over two competitions and beat them in Newport in the URC last season, but the hosts are an improved side this time around and proved that by drawing against the visitors at Ellis Park last month. In a boost to the Lions their whole squad has been passed fit for the match, meaning star flyhalf Jordan Hendrikse will be available after missing the Stade Francais match, in which his replacement Gianni Lombard struggled. So it is now all set to be a make or break game in an up and down season on multiple fronts for the Lions. The Cheetahs are also playing an important Challenge Cup match against French side Pau in Parma on Sunday, needing a win to book their spot in the last 16.