Media personality Ayanda Thabethe and her family enjoyed their vacation in the United Arab Emirates (UAE) city of Dubai.  Thabethe has been posting what has been described on social media as the “rich girl” aesthetic, of sharing a luxury post which includes luxury brands, holidays, supercars and luxurious style.  There is a notable trend on TikTok called the “rich girlfriend” or “stay-at-home girlfriend” where content creators share their daily routines of being a stay-at-home girlfriend to a wealthy man.  However, Thabethe is far from this, as her resume speaks for itself as being one of the top TV presenters in the country.  Her content in Dubai with her mystery man and their son is nothing short of glamour. Thabethe has been posting pictures of tourist destinations in Dubai such as the Dubai Miracle Garden, Eva Beach House Dxb, and the Grand Mosque dressed in designer labels.  This included visiting the Christian Dior store.  Take a look Many of her friends and celebrities agreed that Dubai was treating Thabethe well. Other local celebrities who have vacationed in Dubai recently include Connie Ferguson and Thuso Mbedu.  Thabethe has shared photos of her baby son and partner, although not showing their faces.   As a new mom, Thabethe has been outspoken about some challenges during her pregnancy. This includes the dreaded postpartum hair loss and pigmentation she says worsened after she got pregnant.  Postpartum hair loss is often concentrated on the most visible part of anyone’s head; the hairline. While some moms only experience breakage that leads to the hair around the hairline being shorter than that on the rest of the head, others experience thinning or loose hair on their hairlines altogether.  Ayanda Thabethe seems to have experienced some serious thinning and as someone who makes a living from her famous looks, she decided to do something about her postpartum hair loss.  READ NEXT: VIDEO: Ayanda Thabethe tackles postpartum hair loss with a vampire facial Compiled by Sandisiwe Mbhele, additional reporting by Kaunda Selisho