With less than a week to go until the world gets to watch the long-awaited second season of Kings Of Joburg, global streaming giant Netflix took the opportunity to shout down Joburg with a red carpet extravaganza.  Upon arrival, guests were ushered into a welcome area right at the heart of The Zone @ Rosebank where members of the public were also able to view the festivities, MC’d by comedian Mpho Popps and media personality Loot Love and they also got to see some of their favourite stars up close.  Rapper, K.O. opened the festivities with a performance of some of his hits, including Run Jozi, Mhlobo Wami and Gangsta Love culminating in a performance of his chart-topping track SETE.  All this while stars like Sandile Mahlangu (How To Ruin Christmas), Rosemary Zimu (Savage Beauty), Natasha Thahane (Blood & Water) and Mpho Sibeko (Blood & Water) walked the red carpet and took some pictures with the adoring fans who made sure to let it be known just how excited they were to see them. Beloved actress Connie Chiume also made an appearance in a show-stopping gown, much to the delight of the viewing audience and the industry insiders in attendance.  All this was punctuated by the arrivals of the Kings of Joburg stars throughout the day in the lead-up to Connie Ferguson and Zolisa Xaluva’s show-stopping entrance on motorbikes.  READ NEXT: ‘I wasn’t supposed to be the lead’- Shona Ferguson speaks about ‘Kings of Joburg‘ Speaking to the screaming audience shortly after her arrival, executive producer and season two lead, Ferguson spoke about how much the season meant to her and shared her excitement about the show’s impending launch.  Xaluva also shared a brief message illustrating just how excited he was that the big day was finally here.  After the pomp and circumstance of the red carpet, VIP guests were ushered upstairs to mingle before the screening of the first episode of the show.  “It has been a long time coming for us. We’ve sweated bullets over recreating this show because Samaad will tell you, Sho was still a big part of season two and where the show was going and just before we went into pre-production, we got sick and we lost the biggest part of us. “I think it was important for us, the team, to continue the legacy, it took longer than what we would have wanted it to but I think it was important just to observe the time to deal with what we had to deal with, to go through what we had to go through and to come back strong and really honour him in the best way possible,” said Ferguson as she welcomed guests ahead of the screening.  Kings of Joburg season two releases only on Netflix on 27 January 2023. READ NEXT: Connie Ferguson looks bad-a** in ‘Kings of Jo’Burg’ season two first-look images