Kgaogelo Sekgota was honest in his response to a question about players taking some responsibility for Kaizer Chiefs’ barren run since the turn of the year.  ALSO READ: Stellenbosch coach Barker reveals how he revels in pressure Chiefs have gone on an embarrassing three game losing streak in the DStv Premiership. And this has put coach Arthur Zwane in the spotlight. Calls for Zwane’s firing have already started from some sections of the Amakhosi faithful who feel there is nothing different he can offer.  Sekgota understands that as players they also have to shoulder some of the blame for the poor results. “Obviously as players we have to take some responsibility because at the end of the day we are the ones on the field playing,” said Sekgota this week.  He said however that it is not for a lack of trying from their side that the team has not been getting required results. “We do everything to win a match. We create chances, we play good football but we are just unfortunate that results have not been kind to us.  “But that is football and that is how it is for every football player,” explained Sekgota at Naturena. With Chiefs going down the DStv Premiership standings, their biggest rivals Orlando Pirates have been picking up.  It is however Sundowns who are putting all the other teams – especially the big ones – to shame with their unprecedented good run. Sekgota says their goal is always to win but understands they cannot all win at the same time and their time will come. “In football you learn everyday, you improve everyday and you overcome certain situations everyday.  “All the teams have the same goal but it cannot be achieved by all teams at once – that is how life works.  ALSO READ: Chiefs’ Maart opens up about Puskas snub “We have a good technical team who keep us motivated. And we work hard everyday to rectify the mistakes so we can make our supporters and ourselves happy.  “We keep going because every challenge that comes in life you have to face it and try to overcome it in order to be successful.”  Chiefs have  another difficult test awaiting them on Sunday at Peter Mokaba Stadium in Polokwane where they meet Royal AM.  The Durban side have proved to be a thorn on the Chiefs side but Sekgota believes they can end the hoodoo this time around.