Enhle Mbali Mlotshwa’s private life is under scrutiny after purported leaked phone calls were published on Tuesday.  The recordings have Enhle Mbali on a phone call with a woman by the name of Valentino Bango who accuses her of cheating with her husband.  Bango has accused Enhle Mbali of having an affair with her husband, Justice Huni and claimed she has tried multiple times to stop the affair for a few years.  The story has been bubbling for a few weeks, however, this has changed after leaked conversations between Bango and Enhle surfaced on social media.   Bango claims her husband is asking for a polygamist family, making Enhle his second wife.  Bango has been outspoken, sending statements to gossip blogs, posting alleged messages between Huni and Enhle, and asking her to stop contacting her husband.  In the phone recordings, Bango and the fashion designer are heard discussing the actress’s interest in isthembu (polygamy).  However, Bango makes it clear she is not interested in polygamy.  Enhle says: “Which is why I kept silent and I took it in and I took your pain in. And I completely understood where you were coming from. Something brings me back and I was like you know what, let’s try.  ALSO READ: Enhle Mbali facing ‘frivolous’ R143 million lawsuit “And from that trying, I was telling him what I was doing, I had questions I was asking with regards to what it entails to be in isthembu, apart from watching [a] couple of shows. I know people in South Africa, a couple of friends that are in isthembu and I have done my homework and I understand that it needed to be received from home first.” Valentine Bango Leaks conversations of herself and Enhle Mbali about isthembu Part 1 pic.twitter.com/4kvuHsBjDo— Mathaba (@Mathaba2022) January 10, 2023 Valentine Bango Leaks conversations of herself and Enhle Mbali about isthembu Part 2 pic.twitter.com/ZLuJjbb977— Mathaba (@Mathaba2022) January 10, 2023 Enhle Mbali’s previous relationship with international DJ Black Coffee was controversial, the fashion designer alleged he was abusive during their marriage. They have in the past had public outbursts against each other with Black Coffee denying the allegations against him.  Social media was divided on the leaked records, with the actress appearing to have admitted to having slept with Huni.  Enhle Mbali dissapointed me and I was her biggest supporter. Never trust women ???? pic.twitter.com/05TgTxEZXj— @NubianStan ???? (@SihleStan231) January 10, 2023 Whatever Enhle Mbali does, she’s an adult and it’s none of my business ????????‍????— Mary-Jane Explores ???????????????????? (@maryjaneexplore) January 10, 2023 So enhle mbali goes on saying she was abused by black coffee emotionally because he cheated right But ugirl is busy sleeping with a married men kwanaye so what is she doing yena is she not abusing the wife emotionally?? Le kaka ye double standards towards men needs to stop— Minnie nkocie (@minnie_nkocie) January 10, 2023 Enhle mbali o wrong. I don't care what anyone says. She's a filthy hypocrite that couldn't stomach infidelity in her own marriage but wants to dish it to another woman. Gamors ya di las pic.twitter.com/0yNEvWQiqV— ✨Mrs M✨ (@Feather_Ruffler) January 10, 2023 The Citizen reached out to Enhle’s team, and her representative Tlhogi Ngwato said they “reserved their right to not comment or engage at this time”.  The Blood Pslams actor posted on her Instagram account that people should follow her page “the Voice of Enhle” a platform where she will speak. Huni, on the other hand has responded, publishing a statement calling his relationship with Enhle “one of the boys”.  This statement was also shared on the Voice of Enhle Instagram page. “In the past few weeks allegations have been levelled by my wife about my friend since we [were] teens, who is also my business associate Enhle Mbali Mlotshwa.  “I categorically deny everything stated about Enhle pertaining to the nature of mine and Enhle’s relationship. She, unfortunately, got herself into a messy issue and as a friend covered for me unaware it would lead to this unfortunate event.”  Huni said he is aware that his statement is “late” adding Enhle is “one of the boys and covered me”.  He concluded that the matter needed to be handled privately.  Trust a cheating husband to stand with makhwapheni.Mbali Enhle just released a statement from uguy saying they are friends. He also denies what the wife said about him and Enhle. He will handle the matter at home pic.twitter.com/XH4W5I7Qzd— Zama (@Zama_N_A) January 11, 2023