A relatively few years ago, Tanzanians (and the world at large) were made somewhat familiar with the acronyms ‘MKURABITA’; ‘MKUKUTA’, ‘MKUZA,’ ‘BRN,’ and so on; and so forth… Alas, this is no longer the case today, if only because the terms were for all practical purposes proverbially ‘Gone With the Wind’… to the American writer Margaret Mitchel, pardon for her 1936 novel of the same title! The abbreviations represented in ki-Swahili socioeconomic programmes were initiated by different Governments of the United Republic of Tanzania (popular as ‘Tanzania’ for short). In that regard, the President Mkapa Government (1995-2005) initiated ‘MKURABITA’ in September 2003 as a ‘Mpango wa Kurasimisha Rasilimali na Biashara za Wanyonge.’ This was a government initiative aiming to enable Tanzanian citizens who own properties and businesses outside the formal system of the economy to formalize and use them to raise capital for conducting operations in the modern market economy – doing so according to the law. The Programme was to be implemented in four Phases, namely: “Diagnosis of the Informal Sector (November 2004 to September 2005); Legal and Institutional Reforms Design (January 2006 until May 2008); Implementation (July 2008—?); and Capital Growth and Good Governance (2011-?).” But as we know it, the late Mkapa’s Presidency expired in November 2005! Next came President Jakaya ‘Jack of all Trades’ Kikwete (2005-2015) with his multi-faced ‘MKUKUTA’ Programme ‘Mkakati wa Kukuza Uchumi na Kuondoa Umaskini Tanzania:’ ki-Swahili for ‘National Strategy for Growth and Reduction of Poverty.’ This was designed to “to rally national efforts in accelerating poverty-reducing growth. Claimed to be a results-based national strategy, the MKUKUTA strategy was “to emphasise role of Governance and growth for poverty reduction … and also continue to put emphasis on mainstreaming cross cutting issues in sector strategies and Local Government Authorities (LGAs) development plans.” Incidentally, the Spice Islands across the Zanzibar Channel in the vast Indian Ocean also had ‘their own thing’ dubbed ‘MKUZA,’  ‘Mkakati wa Kukuza Uchumi na Kupunguza Umasikini Zanzibar:’ the ‘Zanzibar Strategy for Growth and Reduction of Poverty. Very briefly, ‘MKUZA’ offers recommendations or interventions on how the stakeholders – the Government, the Non State Actors including Development Partners, the Private Sector, Civil Society Organizations and others  ... can use MKUZA as a tool with which to improve the living standard of Zanzibari's in general. Then there is the BRN (‘Big Results Now’) programme initiated in 2013 by the President of the Forth Union Government of Tanzania (2005-2015), Jakaya Kikwete. The BRN programme is aimed at improving the provision of public services, as well as ensuring Results-Based Aid (RBA) from the country’s Development Partners. However, all the sing-song about BRN has now become history for all practical purposes. Arguably, these have been replaced by ‘Kaupiga Mwingi,’ and ‘Kazi Iendelee!’ Oh, I don’t know… But, the impression gained from all this is that those programmes have been consigned to the back burner – after their initiators left the Highest Office in the Land. These are arguably being replaced by such humdingers as ‘Kaupiga Mwingi’, and ‘Kazi Iendelee…’ In My Book of Things, this reminds me of the wise saying of the 2nd Head of State of the United Republic (1985-1995), President Ally Hassan Mwinyi (born May 8, 1925—): ‘Kila Zama na Kitabu Chake; Kila Nabii na Zama Zake.’ 