Hyundai has used the opening day of the Delhi Auto Expo in India to reveal the updated Grand i10 Nios less than three years after its initial market its reveal. The car that provides the basis for the popular Grand i10 in South Africa, without the Nios suffix, the mid-life tweaks involve not only the interior and exterior, but also underneath the bonnet where the previous range-topping turbocharged engine departs completely. Dimensionally unchanged from the pre-facelift model, the Grand i10’s visual changes comprise a new wider grille and restyled front bumper, new LED daytime running lights and on higher-end trim level, newly designed 15-inch alloy wheels. At the rear resides the biggest change in the form of new light cluster seemingly derived from the original Grand i10, stylised Nios badging across the tailgate underneath the Hyundai logo and a new LED light bar that connects the mentioned clusters. Inside, the eight-inch touchscreen infotainment system and 3.5-inch TFT instrument cluster display continues on more premium models, albeit now bolstered by metal effect finishes, grey cloth seat upholstery plus a leather-wrapped multi-function steering wheel. ALSO READ: Hyundai’s new i10 a Grand little dame New on the specification front is a tyre pressure monitor, type-C USB ports, cruise control, auto on/off headlights, keyless start and up to six airbags with four being standard across all trim level, together with ABS and EBD. As mentioned, the main shake-up to the Grand i10 has been the departure of the 1.0-litre turbocharged petrol that delivered its 74kW/172Nm to the front wheels through a five-speed manual gearbox only. It therefore leaves the normally aspirated 1.2-litre petrol engine as the sole option, with its 61kW/114Nm being transferred to the front axle via a five-speed ‘box or an optional five-speed automated manual. Now available for ordering with expected pricing from around Rs 600 000 (R124 218), a total of six colours will be available; Polar White, Typhoon Silver, Titan Grey, Teal Blue, Fiery Red and Spark Green with the added option of a black roof on the former and latter options. While unconfirmed at present, chances are that the Grand i10 Nios will become available in South Africa later this year, again without the Nios designation, with an unchanged engine line-up but priced slightly higher from the R214 900 asked by the entry-level 1.0 Motion. Additional information from autocarindia.com.