The case against five men who were arrested following the discovery of a decomposed body on a plot in Doornlaagte has been postponed to 9 January, for the appointment of a Legal Aid attorney, for accused 2 to 4, and for further investigations. The charges against Lourene Janse van Niewenhuisen were provisionally withdrawn, pending the outcome of the investigations. The five are facing charges of murder, defeating the ends of justice and possession of unlicensed firearms. The police gained entranced and discovered traces of blood on the floor and a sleeping bag. Police reported that dragging trails of blood led them to a storeroom where they found a decomposed body, with hands tied, with indications of severe beating. NOW READ: Decomposing body of a man discovered in KZN “Two firearms and ammunition were also recovered. Police investigations are still underway and a post-mortem is also conducted to establish the cause of death. “All five will remain in police custody until their next court appearance, where they are expected to register a formal bail application.” According to the National Prosecuting Authority (NPA), an application to the office of the Director of Public Prosecutions in North West for the matter to be transferred to the high court had also been submitted. Stefan Nel (54), Donovan Martin (20), Mustafa Alberrtyn (39), Wayne Schroeder (52) and Adam Barnard (24) were arrested on 21 December 2022, following the disappearance of Klaas Mosimanyana Jobontho (32), who was reported missing between 16 and 21 December 2022, in Koster. “They were arrested on 21 December 2022, following the disappearance of Klaas Mosimanyana Jobontho (32), who was reported missing between 16 and 21 December 2022, in Koster.” “Police investigations led them to a plot in Doornlaagte, and upon their arrival, they were denied access by some of the accused. What became more suspicious to the police officers was people running between buildings, upon their arrival,” said the NPA. ALSO READ: Mpumalanga man AWOL after decomposed body found in ceiling