In what could become a major blow to the Springboks and the Stormers, eighthman Evan Roos could be set for an extended spell on the sideline after picking up a serious looking injury during his side’s heavy 35-5 United Rugby Championship (URC) loss against Ulster on Friday night. Roos was injured just 14 minutes into the game, when his rugby hero Duane Vermeulen and fellow Ulster loose forward Nick Timoney cleared him out of a ruck, with his knee twisting awkwardly as he fell backwards. This saw him limp off almost in tears and, according to his coach John Dobson, could see him out for the remainder of the club rugby season. A frustrating night at Kingspan Stadium. #ULSvSTO #iamastormer #dhldelivers @Vodacom #URC pic.twitter.com/N0FN696rYj “It’s knee ligaments, but I am not sure of the grade or the scale yet. It was a nasty cleanout, and Evan is going to be gone for a while, unfortunately,” said Dobson after the game. “He’s on crutches, so it’s not a trivial knee injury. I just hope it doesn’t impact his aspirations at national level. I would be surprised if he plays for the Stormers again (this season).” Roos had only just returned to the Stormers fold after picking up a rib injury during the Boks final match of their end-of-year-tour against England in November. He put in a superb performance off the bench to help his side over power Clermont in the Champions Cup last weekend and was then named to start against Ulster, only for tragedy to strike. It could also be a major blow to Roos’ Bok aspirations after he struggled to fully break into the national set-up last year. Despite cleaning up with a slew of awards from a brilliant debut URC season, Roos found himself down the pecking order in the Bok set-up behind Jasper Wiese, Vermeulen and Elrigh Louw. However, on the end-of-year tour, with Louw injured and Vermeulen rested, Roos got his shot and impressed with a cameo against Italy and a top performance against England to firmly throw his hat in the ring. But his Bok and World Cup aspirations could take a major hit if he doesn’t play again in the URC or Champions Cup over the rest of this season, especially if other players impress over the coming months.