Top performers of the 2022 academic year look back at the challenges of passing matric and forward to changing the world for the better. Among the top achievers in Gauteng was Membethisi Mtsi from the Pinnacle college Rynfield in Benoni. Mtsi said proper planning and a positive attitude were her secrets to success. “Organisation is a must. Make sure you draw up a calendar to know when your tests are and when assignments are due. Also, add a study schedule. Remember to have a positive attitude. I recall one of my teachers saying, if you love the subject, the subject will love you back,” she said. Mtsi said maths was her favourite subject. “Be positive and don’t enter the classroom hating the subject or not being interested. I never struggled with maths, but it wasn’t my favourite. I had to change my attitude towards it,” she said. Mtsi said she spent many weekends and late nights preparing for exams. “But balance is important. I don’t like it when people say if you are not losing weight in matric, then you are not doing it right,” she said. Mtsi said while she studied hard, she made time to unwind and watch reality TV shows. Mtsi was planning to venture into finance and also applied to study in the US. “Enjoy the last year of school, work hard and savour every moment. Make the proper decision so that you don’t regret anything at the end of the year,” she said. Crawford College in Pretoria boasted a set of twins as their top performers for 2022. Kauthar Adam said her secret was she worked hard and played hard. “During the week I work hard and left the weekend open to spending time for family and for personal time. When it was time to study, I focused and worked hard. The most important thing I did was I focussed in class. I put all my attention and focus into class. By the time I had to study, I already knew the work. I made sure I understood everything because if you understand your foundation, it is much easier to build up from there,” she said. Adam said the challenge was studying the whole without getting burned out or frustrated. ALSO READ: Umalusi concerned over cheating during NSC exams, but approves 2022 matric results “It’s hard to keep motivated when you study so much. I had two family members, of which one was like a mother to me pass away during the June exams. That was very difficult for me. She was part of who I am, so it was hard,” she said. Adam was planning on studying medicine followed by clinical pharmacology or biology. “I enjoy chemistry and biology, it’s my favourite subject,” she said. Adam said matric was stepping into the rest of a person’s life. “You don’t want to regret it for the rest of your life.” Her twin sister Firdous Adam said her secret to success was waking up early to study. “I set a routine to wake up early. Previously I studied in the morning hours. In matric, I went to bed early and woke up early to study. I made sure I got enough sleep which helped. I wish I implemented it years ago,” she said. She said the death in the family was difficult to get through. “I’m interested in the health science field; I have a passion for it and I want to work in a field that actively helps people heal. The medical industry in our country can always do with an extra set of helping hands,” she said. ALSO READ: Here’s how your matric marks are calculated and how much you need to pass Adam said she was pursuing medicine and was still deciding in which field she would specialise. “To my fellow pupils, not everyone will hear the results they want to, but it’s not the end for them. The light bulb was invented with a thousand steps. Life is unfair and hard and we have to put in the effort to see the results,” she said. Lukas Esterhuizen joined Dainfern College in Grade 8. He participated in both Tennis and Cricket in High School and represented the College with pride in these disciplines. He also earned Academic Honours and an Academic Medal for his consistently high academic achievement throughout High School. He was named by Dainfern as Dux Scholar in Grade 12, where he was also awarded four subject prizes as well as the prestigious Values Award for Respect at the Matric Valediction. marizkac@citizen.co.za