Here’s your morning news update: An easy-to-read selection of our top stories. Stay up to date with The Citizen – More News, Your Way The matric results are out for the schools that wrote the Independent Examinations Board (IEB) exams, with the 2022 class achieving a pass rate of 98.42%. This is a slight improvement on 2021’s pass rate of 98.39%. The IEB said all its matric candidates achieved results good enough to allow them to study at tertiary institutions. READ MORE: Matric results: 2022 IEB class gets ‘outstanding’ 98.42% pass rate after being hit hardest by Covid WATCH: Sheba the escaped tiger killed This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. This is a modal window. This modal can be closed by pressing the Escape key or activating the close button. READ MORE: WATCH: Sheba the escaped tiger killed The Minister of Higher Education, Science and Innovation, Blade Nzimande has wished the matric class of 2022 well as they await their results. In a statement issued by his office, Nzimande assured current and prospective university students that the announcement and the release of the matriculation results will not affect the state of readiness for the 2023 academic year.  READ MORE: Several universities will allow late registrations, says Nzimande ahead of matric results announcement Shauwn ‘MaMkhize’ Mkhize and Bheki Cele’s footage of their New Year’s celebration has resurfaced.  MaMkhize posted a video of herself, her family members including son Andile Mpisane and his wife Tamia on a yacht with the police minister.  The Instagram reel was posted on MaMkhize’s page a day after New Year’s Day, showing how the family had a good time as they entered 2023. Any thought that Kaizer Chiefs might sack head coach Arthur Zwane has been dispelled by a club insider.The source, who is close to Amakhosi’s management, has revealed that there is no panic as the club continue to keep their faith in the former winger. Zwane and Chiefs were embarrassed by AmaZulu this past week, who thumped them 4-0, with fans calling for the head of Zwane.