After South Africans heard that Checkers ran two advertisements in The London Evening Standard and The Sydney Herald showcasing their value offering, one of their main competitor Woolworths, couldn’t help but poke fun at the controversial ads.  Checkers has no stores in Sydney, Australia nor in London, England so this move left some consumers confused about why they ran the advertisement.  The chief marketer of the Checkers group, Mike Middleton, reminded South Africans living in these areas that Checkers is cheaper and that they don’t just sell groceries, but a better lifestyle. Many online commentators couldn’t help but mention the glaring issues facing South Africans such as the electricity crisis, crime and the inflation rate.  Middleton further stated the advert shows how much cheaper their products are compared to Moët & Chandon, Coca-Cola, matured rump steak and laundry capsules at Checkers versus stores such as Marks & Spencer, Tesco and Waitrose in England, as well as Coles, Aldi and Woolworths in Australia. Well, Woolworths didn’t take this lightly.  Posting on their Instagram page, Woolworths couldn’t help but clap back.  They posted: “Chuckles. We all know who the expats really miss.” Chuckles ???? pic.twitter.com/YLbPZJl4Oe— Woolworths SA (@WOOLWORTHS_SA) January 27, 2023 Some social media users agreed. Apparently Checkers is running ads in the UK and Australia to remind SA expats of a better lifestyle back here in SA. I am sorry but I don’t remember being abroad and missing Checkers. Checkers? No. Woolies definitely!— Tumi (@itoomeleng__) January 28, 2023 That has just been our conversation in our home in Oz.— Brad Dessington (@braddessington) January 27, 2023 Checkers’ ad wasn’t about the expats, it was about treating their families back home with the best delivery service.— Gunnar Sigge (@GunnarSigge) January 28, 2023 So true!! Woolies is always my husbands first stop when we get to SA and he’s American— Thandi Ndlovu ???????????????? (@laurelThandi) January 28, 2023 With the cost of living rising, many consumers are trying o find solutions and shops that could save them money.  Woolworths trended earlier this month after Survivor South Africa host and actor Nico Panagio’s tweet about how increasing food prices at the retailer were unreasonable and that they were going to lose a customer if they did nothing about it.  “Dear @WOOLWORTHS_SA been wonderful having you around – great quality (most of the time) however since you keep putting your prices up (weekly it seems), you’re gonna see us less & less. Thought I should tell you since we’ve been in a trading relationship for so very long,” Panagio tweeted. Consumers not only complained about Woolies but supermarket retailers in general.  READ NOW: Woolworths prices too rich for ‘Survivor’ presenter Nico Panagio, and tweeps agree