The Paarl Royals managed to hold on after letting their opponents back in against the Sunrisers Eastern Cape in their SA20 match in Gqeberha yesterday. While Jos Buttler looked to be compiling a solid innings, his team was lucky to hold on after the Royals’ batting order virtually capitulated. With the hosts chasing 131 runs to win, English batter Buttler carried the Paarl Royals innings with a well-constructed half-century before he fell for 51 runs off 39 balls, in what was a lonely stand against the visitors. While their batters never really took advantage of the opportunity created by their bowling attack, however, David Miller contributed 36 runs off 21 deliveries to carry them home as they secured a five-wicket victory. The Dam in ???????????????? stands for David Andrew Miller. ???????? pic.twitter.com/YMN2Bha0dD— Paarl Royals (@paarlroyals) January 24, 2023 Eastern Cape all-rounder Roelof van der Merwe returned figures of 2/11 from his four overs. “It was a little bit challenging, especially with the wind, so I just tried to hit through the line,” Miller said. “It was a bit slow… but I thought we really bowled well under pressure. It’s great to get the win and it was a fantastic performance from the boys.” Earlier, while the visitors removed the Sunrisers’ openers cheaply, with Adam Rossington and Jordan Hermann falling for just four runs each, JJ Smuts led a recovery which got his team back on track. Smuts combined with Paarl captain Aiden Markram in a 44-run stand for the third wicket before the skipper was clean bowled by Andile Phehlukwayo for 15 runs, trying to slog the ball out the park. Smuts then fell in the 16th over for 65 runs off 49 balls including nine boundaries (his 21st T20 half-century), when he was trapped leg-before by spin bowler Tabraiz Shamsi. ALSO READ: It is rare to come across a genuine gem like Hashim Amla Some cameo knocks by middle-order batters Tristan Stubbs (18) and Marco Jansen (13) kept the home side going, they ultimately fell short of a match-winning innings by reaching 130/7. Phehlukwayo, who returned 2/26, and Evan Jones (2/27) were the best of the Sunrisers bowlers. “It’s about regrouping. We have a couple of days away until we play our next game and we’re looking forward to our next match,” said Royals captain Aiden Markram. “This competition is great for local players to get exposure and rub should with some of the best players in the world can only help.”