Dar es Salaam. Members of the business community yesterday outlined several tax-related issues that they want the government to work on in an effort to improve Tanzania’s business environment and boost economic growth. In response to the issues,which were highlighted during a national tax dialogue to guide the preparations of the budget for the 2023/2024 financial year, Finance and Planning minister Mwigulu Nchemba said the government would analyse the issues and consider them accordingly. “The inputs collected today will be used by our experts in reviewing the tax regime,” he said, noting that the review work was already in progress. He said the government wants to come up with favourable tax measures that will enhance competitiveness of the private sector which is the engine for the country’s economy. In a nutshell, members of the private sector want a friendly and predictable tax regime.  “We need to be sure that rules of the game will not change…We need policies and procedures that allow innovation to enhance our competitiveness….We need a regulatory environment that is simple and efficient,” said the chief executive officer(CEO) of Tanzania Breweries Limited, Mr Jose Moran. A tax partner at Delloite Consulting Ltd Festo Bathlomeo said the government needs to be clear on rules and regulations in order for it to collect tax on time. “The clarity on what is put in tax policies is required to ensure that we promote investment,” he said. He said a good tax regime was important in fostering public-private sector relations. “Institutions in charge of facilitating business should foster a culture of going out to check on firms to determine if they are operating comfortably before considering taxing them,” advised Mr Bathlomeo. “This will make businesses sustainable and boost tax compliance,” he said. PwC’s senior country partner in Tanzania David Tarimo said in the course of formulating policies, holistic approach should be used.  This, he said, will help Tanzania to have a favourable tax regime and make Tanzania an investor-friendly destination.  Special favours, he proposed, should be provided to Small and Medium Sized Enterprises (SMEs). “They should be exempted from paying some form of taxes,” he said, proposing the need to look at the best ways on tax collection and shun the allure of increasing tax rates. Mr Tarimo was of the view that the collaboration between the government and private sector should be taken to the next level. “Trust, consultation and collaboration are important for the country’s development. We need to have effective dialogue,” urged Mr Tarimo, who doubles as chairman for CEO Roundtable. Tanzania Revenue Authority (TRA), said Mr Tarimo, should invest massively on technology to enhance tax administration and tax filing.  A tax partner and Ernst & Young, Mr Donald Nsanyiwa, said it was high time the formalisation of the informal sector was taken seriously to broaden the tax base. TRA figures show that there were 4.4 million taxpayers out of Tanzania’s 65 million individuals. “We must now walk the talk on formalisation of the informal sector… We can start with a pilot study in some parts of Dar es Salaam to see its effectiveness before rolling it out to other parts,” he said. Former CRDB managing director  Dr Charles Kimei called for policy predictability and certainty. The government should cultivate a culture of providing incentives to businesses that are good at tax compliance.  Repoa executive director Donald Mmari expressed the need to have policies that protect domestic industries. “We need policies that align with the objective of economic growth,” he recommended.  Rev Eliona Kimaro of Evangelical Lutheran Church of Tanzania urged the taxman to be friendly to taxpayers if it is to scale up tax compliance.  “Investors need predictability in the business environment so that they can be sure about their tomorrow,” said Dr Kimaro, who is also an economist. Tanzania Air Operators Association (Taoa) executive secretary Lathifa Sykes called on the government to reinstate exemption of Value Added Tax (Vat) on air charters. She said since the removal of Vat exemption in July last year, the number of bookings has dropped significantly. “Numbers don’t lie. The imposition of Vat on Air Charters has had a negative impact on local air operators. Our neighbours are now enjoying the fruits of this decision,” she lamented. For his part, Mwananchi Communications Limited (MCL) business manager Jackson Tarimo called on the government to consider exempting the 18 percent Vat and an import duty of 10 percent on importation of newsprint for newspaper production. This, he said, would cut operation costs at a time when global prices of the products were rising due to the war in Ukraine. “We need exemption because the value of the product is to inform and educate the society and help people to make positive changes,” noted Mr Tarimo. That is why, he added, the product (newspaper) itself is exempted so that the final consumer is not burdened.  But going forward, Dr Nchemba said, in a bid to improve the tax regime, the government will be working closely with tax analysts from within and outside the country as well as tax research institutions to get their inputs.  However, he said the private sector for its part, also should play responsibly and not evade paying tax. He said tax had a direct relation with the country’s development and so evading paying it could be translated into lowering the speed of development.   “We need to share a tax burden so that a few tax payers are not milked dry,” said the minister. He said the government was looking at ways to broaden the tax base to collect more revenues without hurting a few. According to him, more than 65 percent of businesses in the country are informal, a trend that calls for their formalisation.