The stumbling block between Mamelodi Sundowns and Andile Jali is that the side are willing to present a new contract to Jali, but are not keen to meet the supposed financial demands made by Jali’s camp. Jali’s vantage point in terms of looking for an improved package at Downs is that he won big last season as far as individual awards are concerned.  He is the reigning MTN8 Last Man Standing, the DStv Premiership Midfielder of the Season and Nedbank Cup Player of the Tournament. ALSO READ: Hunt hoping for last minute shopping before window shuts While Sundowns are appreciative of his efforts, their arm is unlikely to be bent in this situation. “They have offered Jali a bit more than what he is getting now, but that is not enough. Another problem is the length of the contract that they are offering. Jali is turning 33 in April and on its own is a factor,” said an insider at Choorklop.  “We understand that it does not make business sense to give a 33-year-old a long term contract. But Jali is not a player who you give deals such as one-year with an option to extend. You need to make a commitment to him.”  The former Orlando Pirates midfielder has been with Downs since 2018 and spent most of his initial time at Downs as a benchwarmer. He went on to become a mainstay in the heart of Sundowns’ midfielder, though this season he has made just eight starts in the DStv Premiership.   Head coach Rualni Mokwena says his hands are tied as far as calling the shots on Jali’s future. “My feelings have been consistent about AJ. The issue lies within management but … my feelings are his role, his importance in the group are very clear,” said Mokwena. Jali’s deal reaches its expiry date in June and if Sundowns do not make a clear commitment to him by the end of today, he will be able to sign a pre-contract with any other club, meaning he will leave Downs on a free transfer. Teams that are believed to be keen on his services are his former side Pirates and Kaizer Chiefs, who are understood to be following Jali’s situation with keen interest.