A shootout between police and gang of robbers in Midrand has left four suspects dead and two others injured, the Hawks confirmed. The shootout during a high-speed chase took place in Glen Austin on Wednesday morning. The Directorate for Priority Crime Investigation (DPCI), also known as Hawks, had received intelligence that an armed gang was planning to hijack a truck carrying electronic devices. According to Hawks spokesperson Katlego Mogale, officers from different units, as well as security guards, had spotted four vehicles trying to stop the truck. A high-speed chase, Mogale said, then ensued between the police and the gang. “It is reported that information was received from crime intelligence of a truck that would be hijacked around Midrand. The information was operationalised wherein the identified suspects’ vehicles were noticed on Olifantsfontein road in Glen Austin,” she said in a statement. ALSO READ: Two people shot dead, three others wounded in Eldorado Park “Upon realising that the team is about to pounce, the suspects fired shots and a high-speed chase as well as shootout ensued. “Four suspects were fatally wounded and two others suffered minor injuries which were attended to on scene. The truck is alleged to have been couriering electronic devices.”  Mogale added that the police recovered two unlicensed firearms from the scene and the vehicles used by the suspects. “The four vehicles used by the suspects had have questionable origins which are under investigation. The arrested suspects will appear in court soon.” Midrand shooting:4 dead2 wounded4 arrested 2 guns seized•Gang targeted a truck transporting cell phones. pic.twitter.com/a5UDSTzQpq— Yusuf Abramjee (@Abramjee) January 18, 2023 Two suspects were recently found dead near Kibler Park in the south of Johannesburg after they allegedly attempted to steal fuel from a Transnet pipeline over the weekend. One of the bodies was found in a “structure” not far from the crime scene, while another was found in a tunnel leading to Transnet’s petroleum pipeline. The two suspects were “overcome by fumes” while trying siphon fuel from the pipeline on Saturday night, according to Transnet Pipelines. The tunnel and “structure” were demolished the following day. NOW READ: Transnet fuel theft: Six suspects arrested after car chase and tanker catching fire