Unguja. The Zanzibar Revenue Board (ZRB) has on Friday, January 13 been rebranded and renamed as the Zanzibar Revenue Authority (ZRA) after the Government approved changes to law number 11 of 2022 to establish the authority. As a result of the changes, President Hussein Mwinyi has appointed Yussuf Juma Mwenda as the Commissioner General of the ZRA. The new changes will enhance the authority’s efficiency and in the process do away with institutions that were collecting tax without having the legal mandate to do so Speaking to the media at the Authority’s offices in Mazizini, on Friday January 13, 2023, the Minister of State, Office of the President, Finance and Planning, Dr. Saada Mkuya, said that the step has been reached after the process was completed. "The law was officially passed on December 14 by the House of Representatives and on December 29, 2022 the Honorable President signed it and it has already been announced in the Gazzete," said Dr. Saada Mkuya She said, along with the increase growth in revenue collection under ZRB, the government has seen the need to transform ZRB into a full authority not only to collect revenue, but to build a strong institution that will be respected and bring optimal operational results. "We want this authority to improve and operate at international standards in line with other authorities in the East African Community as it has been given major responsibilities to manage the country's revenue," she said. She emphasized the need for the authority to strengthen its systems and human resources to ensure that the government's revenue is collected and to create a mechanism to make people pay taxes voluntarily. On his part Commissioner Mwenda, has thanked President Mwinyi for showing confidence in him and other officials of that authority and promised that they will do everything possible to ensure that they fulfill his expectations, calling on all those who are eligible to pay taxes do so. He has said that they hope to see the authority become a leading entity and provide better services to businessmen who are the biggest tax stakeholders.