Both the Sharks and Edinburgh threw the ball around like shoppers with full credit cards at a Black Friday sale, but it was the Sharks who eventually scraped a 22-19 win in a thrilling United Rugby Championship match in the Scottish capital on Saturday night. The Sharks had cruised into a 14-0 lead in the first quarter, with scrumhalf Grant Williams giving the visitors the ideal start as he intercepted after a kicking battle and used his tremendous pace to race clear for the try from just inside the Edinburgh half. Loosehead prop Ox Nche, who certainly raised his transfer value with a dynamic all-round display, then broke clear on the outside and passed inside to Williams, who was brought down in the 22 and Edinburgh killed the ball, resulting in a yellow card for wing Wes Goosen. From the penalty, the Sharks launched a double-line attack and a ball out the back saw fullback Aphelele Fassi passing out of the tackle for wing Marnus Potgieter to score. Read more: Sharks hoping to catch patchy Edinburgh cold in URC clash But Edinburgh found the wind in their sails in the second quarter as they roared into a 19-14 lead at halftime. A superb sweeping move saw hooker Adam McBurney score and the 26-year-old scored again three minutes before halftime as Henry Immelman’s fantastic 50/22 kick gave the home side a lineout and the opportunity to maul from close to the tryline. It was all square with halftime imminent, but the Sharks then dropped the ball on attack and Edinburgh pounced, quick to get the ball wide and fullback Immelman received a brilliant pass from eighthman Viliame Mata and stormed over for a try in the corner. Read more: Tapuai urges Sharks to put on a good show Both teams, in their effort to play expansively, made lots of simple errors in the second half. The one thing that stayed on a level of sheer excellence was the Sharks’ scramble defence. Ex-Montpellier scrumhalf Cameron Wright was the first to react when an Edinburgh ball went to ground, and the outstanding Sharks forwards were right behind him to counter-ruck and earn a penalty, which flyhalf Curwin Bosch kicked to cut Edinburgh’s lead to 19-17. The Sharks then took the lead on the hour mark when hooker Kerron van Vuuren scored from a rolling maul that went right and then back inside. But a 22-19 lead was tenuous and the Sharks were under huge pressure in the last 15 minutes, especially when replacement prop Carlu Sadie was contentiously yellow-carded for what was deemed a dangerous clean-out at a ruck. But the Sharks were indefatigable in defence, keeping waves and waves of Edinburgh attacks out. Fassi, who has had question marks over his defence, made four crucial tackles. Scorers Edinburgh – Tries: Adam McBurney (2), Henry Immelman. Conversions: Charlie Savala (2). Sharks – Tries: Grant Williams, Marnus Potgieter, Kerron van Vuuren. Conversions: Curwin Bosch (2). Penalty: Bosch.