The famous five friends; Trevor Noah, Anele Mdoda, Khaya Dlanga, Sizwe Dhlomo and Xolisa Dyeshana, upped the ante with their annual ‘friendcation’ this year. The group of friends have a standing appointment to meet up around the festive season for their annual holiday. In 2021, they holidayed in Cape Town, spending time on a yacht, a beautiful mansion overlooking the ocean and sipping wine in the Cape Winelands of course. They have also previously travelled together to the United States and Asia. For their 2022/2023 holiday, the group jetted off to Costa Rica, a small country in Central America. ALSO SEE: PICS: Inside Liesl Laurie-Mthombeni and Musa’s New York New Year’s trip Radio personality and television presenter Sizwe Dhlomo has shared several photos and videos of his time in Nacascolo, Guanacaste in Costa Rica so far, making fans envious with his beautiful views. https://t.co/4RtNr5CSY0 pic.twitter.com/0VxTnsLQbG— Sizwe Dhlomo (@SizweDhlomo) December 28, 2022 The property where the friends are staying for the duration of their trip has a stunning infinity pool overlooking the lush forest and ocean. The interior of their accommodation looks very spacious and stylish, ideal for a getaway with friends. Just to say Molo pic.twitter.com/6u8OMAB0Yu— Khaya Dlanga (@khayadlanga) December 28, 2022 Marketing executive, Khaya Dlanga also wasted no time to share his beautiful surroundings with friends and followers. Although Anele and her son Alakhe arrived after the boys, the radio and television personality has been sharing snaps of herself and Alakhe enjoying the pool to its full potential. Lazing around in the swimming pool is not the only activity on the group of friends’ to-do-list. They have been quite busy getting the adrenaline pumping on their trip, from going jet skiing, to off-roading and even river rafting. Adventure !!! And @SizweDhlomo saying Umlazi to the world ???????????? pic.twitter.com/vJCwQqFDJs— Anele Mdoda (@Anele) January 2, 2023 However, after all the excitement, Anele was back in the swimming pool with a drink watching the sun set over Costa Rica. Trevor Noah has been very quiet on the posting front, not having shared anything about his holiday with his friends, at the time of writing. The comedian will be travelling to South Africa for 12 shows, between 31 August and 15 September 2023. ALSO SEE: Trevor Noah Live in South Africa: Everything you need to know