Despite the controversial leaked contents of Prince Harry’s highly anticipated memoir Spare, it seems the divided British public went out in numbers to buy the royal’s book.  After two eye-opening interviews with acclaimed journalist Anderson Cooper on 60 Minutes on CBS and ITV’s Tom Brady, it seems the British public was still interested in finding out more details about Prince Harry’s own version of his story.  Royal expert, journalist and author Ombid Scobie of Prince Harry and Meghan Markle’s book; Finding Freedom: Harry and Meghan and the Making of a Modern Royal Family shared that the younger brother of Prince William had broken records in the United Kingdom.  He wrote on Twitter: “And there you have it! [A] Spokesperson for @TransworldBooks a UK division of Penguin Random House, tells me that Prince Harry’s #Spare has become Britain’s fastest-selling non-fiction title of all time. It’s, so far, recorded a sales figure of 400 000 copies across all formats”. And there you have it! Spokesperson for @TransworldBooks, a UK division of Penguin Random House, tells me that Prince Harry's #Spare has become Britain's fastest selling non-fiction title of all time. It's, so far, recorded a sales figure of 400,000 copies across all formats. pic.twitter.com/UR79lRe4DV— Omid Scobie (@scobie) January 10, 2023 Scobie added that the previous record was held by his own book about the Duke and Duchess of Sussex.  ALSO READ: After months of hype, Prince Harry’s memoir ‘Spare’ goes on sale Harry has been on a media tour to promote the book, also appearing in TV interviews such as Good Morning America with Michael Strahan, having a front page feature in People magazine and making an appearance on The Late Show with Stephen Colbert.  It was reported that Harry’s 60 Minutes interview was watched by 11.2 million viewers – a season-high for the show.  On The Late Show, Harry clarified the reports that he “boasted” about the number of people he has killed in Afghanistan in his book Spare.  He said: “Without a doubt, the most dangerous lie that they have told [media], is that I somehow boasted about the number of people I killed in Afghanistan”. Colbert says after reading parts of the book he perceived Harry’s description of his service in Afghanistan as a “very thoughtful” knowledge and experience he had.   Harry responded: “If I heard anyone boasting of that kind of thing, I would be angry. But it is a lie, hopefully now the book is out people would be able to see the context and it is disturbing and troubling that they [media] can get away with it”. "Without a doubt, the most dangerous lie that they have told, is that I somehow boasted about the number of people I killed in Afghanistan." — Prince Harry tells #Colbert, adding that his "words are not dangerous," but the spin on his "words are very dangerous." #Spare pic.twitter.com/FnjEZ0QnQl— The Late Show (@colbertlateshow) January 10, 2023 The Duke has reiterated repeatedly that his strained relationship with his family is majorly blamed on the British media, their “lies” and his family “planting stories” with the press.  Buckingham Palace has not publicly responded to Harry’s memoir and the controversial contents against the family.  READ NEXT: Prince Harry thought Diana faked her death, and other revelations from his ’60 Minutes Interview’