Jet Dark and Kommetdieding have been South Africa’s best staying horses for three memorable seasons – in a fierce rivalry that will be remembered for a long time by racing aficionados. On Saturday – at a cloudy, crowded and colourful Kenilworth – it was Jet Dark that got the upper hand. Just. The five-year-old, trained by Justin Snaith and ridden by Richard Fourie, won the 2023 World Sports Betting Cape Town Met by a short head, overhauling Kommetdieding in the final stride of the famous old 2000m race. ALSO READ: The sport of grooms comes of age with R100,000 bonus The five-year-old, who started at 4-1, produced stunning finishing speed to edge out the defending Met champion (8-1) – who had looked a winner from 100m out under Gavin Lerena. In third place was 66-1 outsider Pomp And Power, who streaked up from last place, 20 lengths off the pace on the bend. In fourth was Nexus (66-1), ahead of Cousin Casey (4-1) and Rascallion (40-1). Snaith saddled the first, third and fourth finishers. Jet Dark’s owners, Nick Jonsson and Tommy Crowe, revealed that their horse would immediately be retired to stud. It seems Kommetdieding, trained by Harold Crawford and Michelle Rix is, also be headed for the breeding sheds. Winning jockey Fourie said: “Him and Kommetdieding; what can you say? It is an incredible way to send these great horses to stud. ALSO READ: Greg Bortz deserves to win the Met Jonsson and Crowe paid tribute to the runner-up, their old combatant. “Jet Dark made Kommetdieding and Kommetdieding made him,” said Crowe. Jonsson added: “There are no word really to describe owning a horse like this. He is just extraordinary.” He also heaped praise on Jet Dark’s groom, Rasta Mwelase, “one of the heroes of this story” as the only person in the yard able to handle the “playful” colt. Fourie said the race was slowly run, making it hard to find a comfortable travelling position.  Cousin Casey took up the lead soon after the start, with Sparkling Water at his hip and Jet Dark also prominent. Kommetdieding was midfield for most of the journey, and Pomp And Power brought up the rear from a very wide draw. In the straight, the field tracked towards the outside rail – as has been the fashion at Kenilworth in recent weeks. Fourie and Jet Dark lost rhythm when the horse jumped a shadow and was then cramped for room. Kommetdieding found a path up the middle of the track and forged clear. Short-lived challenges came from 7-2 favourite Make It Snappy, Nexus and Rascallion, but Lerena’s urgings kept Kommetdieding rolling to what looked for all the world like a Met double. But Fourie got his act together on the wide outside and flew up to grab the honours. The main disappointments of the race were three-year-old filly Make It Snappy, who faded away to midfield, and Durban July winner Sparkling Water, another filly, who ended up second last.