Beating Mamelodi Sundowns is proving to be more difficult with each game and Sekhukhune United are the latest to learn this. ALSO READ: Not having our way in transfer market crippled Chiefs, admits ZwaneSekhukhune may have felt they had a chance to upset Sundowns when the Brazilians were reduced to 10 men at Loftus Stadium on Saturday afternoon. Playing the last 15 minutes a man short didn’t stop Sundowns from registering their 14th consecutive DStv Premiership win this season. The 2-0 win over Sekhukhune means Sundowns have stretched their lead atop the standings to 22 points with 10 games to the end. Sekhukhune had almost upset Sundowns in the first minute with Victor Letsoalo getting a rare chance but his shot sailed harmlessly wide.  It was all Sundowns after that. They threw everything at Babina Noko with Neo Maema coming close earlier on.  Sipho Mbule also had an effort at goal but it sailed over. Peter Shalulile had an attempt from close range saved by Badra Ali Sangare.  Sekhukhune managed to prevent Sundowns from scoring. Despite being under siege, it would have been Brandon Truter who went to the break happier of the two coaches.  His team managed to keep their shape and not allow Sundowns to dismantle them as easily as they usually do.  But things quickly went south for Truter’s side in the second half with Shalulile allowed to have a tap in just in front of goal.  From the restart Sekhukhune had the ball in the back of the net but Chibuike Ohizu was in an offside position when he scored.  Truter rang changes, making three substitutions and just a few moments after coming on Elias Mokwana came close to repaying the faith put in him.  He managed to slide between two Sundowns defenders and send the ball on goal but Denis Onyango managed to bundle it away.  In the 63rd minute the other substitute Pogiso Mahlangu scored for Sekhukhune but was also in an offside position.  Sundowns were reduced to 10 men in the 75th minute with Marcelo Allende getting a straight red a few minutes after coming on. This was after the diminutive Sundowns attacker stepped dangerously on Letsoalo’s leg with a late challenge.  Goalkeeper coach Wendell Robinson was also sent off for dissent after questioning the referee’s change of heart. ALSO READ: Stellenbosch coach Barker reveals how he revels in pressure The middleman had initially cautioned Allende with a yellow card but after consulting with the fourth official changed it to red.  Sekhukhune however could not utilise the extra man advantage. Instead it was Sundowns who extended their lead.  Thapelo Morena went on an inspired run down the right, getting through a few Sekhukhune players.  He then sent in an inviting cross into the box which was met by Cassius Mailula who has just been on the field for a little less than 10 minutes.