Local football analyst Siphiwe “Dr Mnandi” Mkhonza believes Maritzburg United coach Fadlu Davids is at the same level as Pitso Mosimane.  ALSO READ: Zwane hints at hiring striker coach at Chiefs amid goal drought Davids was re-hired by Maritzburg after they parted ways with John Maduka following a string of bad results.  Since his return, Davids has got the Blue Hearts humming again and won two games on the spin.  Mosimane is South Africa’s most successful coach and currently plies his trade in Saudi Arabia with first division side Al Ahli.  Speaking on SAfm’s sports show this week, Mkhonza said Davids gives attention to the details and that is why he has quickly got the team going. “He is a coach who understands the culture and tradition of Maritzburg, that is number one.  “But also Fadlu, as an individual, remember people don’t talk about how Fadlu was the coach at Locomotiv (Moscow) just recently.  “Unfortunately things didn’t go well and it was not because of the performance but because of the dynamics in Russia.  “Fadlu puts in a lot of time, a lot of hours into his work. He is a very good coach and sometimes in football you need a coach like that.  “He is like Pitso in terms of analysing the opposition and tactical acumen. I think Fadlu also has the psychological aspect which is key for any coach in understanding the culture.  “Our players’ culture is completely different from any other country. Fadlu understands the dynamics at Maritzburg.”  Mkhonza says the football played by Maritzburg in recent games shows that they are a well coached team.  “If you look at the goal they scored against Arrows, it was a coach’s goal. Arrows were enjoying the build up but Maritzburg were able to change rapidly from defence to attack and were able to score.  ALSO READ: Chiefs will have to wait it out for Stellenbosch duo “Fadlu has reinvented the mindset of the players. The players there are playing like it is the first few matches of the season but we have played 17 games already. “This tells you that a coach who has come in has said things that players want to hear and that is why they are delivering,” said Mkhonza.