The car that provides the base for the Honda Ballade in South Africa, the Indian-made City, will reportedly receive its first mid-life facelift in March since being unveiled three years ago. More than likely set to arrive on local soil around the second quarter of this year, the expected changes will centre around the exterior and interior, with those of the latter potentially on course to be derived from the new WR-V. According to the findings by the Autocar India, the biggest change will occur underneath the bonnet where the 1.5-litre turbodiesel engine will make way for an alleged hybrid unit in preparation for the stricter BS6.2 emissions regulations that will come into force in India on the first of April. The requirements of regulations favouring hybrid or electric vehicles rather than conventional internal combustion engines have been deemed too costly for the diesel to adhere to, leaving Honda with no choice but to drop its last remaining oil-burning model in India. ALSO READ: Honda Ballade has stood the test of time Despite the diesel, which made 74kW/200Nm, having never been availed to South Africa, its replacement, rumoured to be 1.5-litre hybrid from the Jazz, is currently offered in the Fit Hybrid, which could result in it being marketed in the Ballade alongside the existing normally aspirated 1.5-litre unit. As it seems unlikely that Honda will bring the 1.0-litre turbocharged engine from the Thai-market City to South Africa, the hybrid, should approval be given, could serve an alternative to the TSI unit the Ballade’s main rival, the Volkswagen Polo Sedan, from the fourth quarter of this year. At present, the Polo Sedan, known as the Virtus in South America and India, is only powered by a normally aspirated 1.6-litre petrol engine that delivers 81kW/172Nm versus the 89kW/145Nm made by the Ballade’s 1.5-litre mill. In the Fit Hybrid, output is rated at 80kW/253Nm. Once introduced, expect the City/Ballade’s transmission choices to consist of a five-speed manual, a CVT and in the case of the hybrid, the same e-CVT used in the Fit Hybrid. Likely to be previewed by way of teaser images before its eventual debut in March, expect Honda South Africa to make details of the Ballade available once the City has had its unveiling in said month.