This tahini chicken recipe uses ingredients that you can find year-round so it’s always seasonal, delicious, and easy to make. According to the recipe’s author, Kevin O’Leary, the grilled chicken comes out moist, juicy and tender every time with this recipe. He attributes this to the marinade of Mediterranean flavours; garlic and shallots, parsley and rosemary, and Greek yoghurt brightened up with a splash of lemon and a dash of spicy red pepper flakes.  “The sesame tahini paste adds a nutty, savoury flavour that really takes this dish to the next level.” The chef also advises keeping marinating time to a minimum with this recipe.  “Regardless of what type of protein, make sure to keep your marinating time under 24 hours. For chicken, if an acid like lemon juice is in the marinade I typically like to keep the marinade process to 4 hours because the meat can start to break down and have a mushy texture, but overnight is ok with this one.” Serve with grilled veggies or any of your favourite summertime sides. In a medium-sized bowl combine the oil, tahini, shallot, garlic, salt, red pepper flakes, herbs, water and lemon juice and zest. Stir to mix well. Scoop out ¼ cup of marinade and set aside. To the reserved marinade, add 2 tablespoons of Greek yoghurt and 1 tablespoon of water and mix. Cover and refrigerate until serving. In a large ziplock bag add the chicken and pour tahini marinade over, seal and massage with hands to coat. Refrigerate max 4 hours. Preheat your grill to 400°F (204°C). Clean the grill and coat it with cooking spray. Shake excess marinade from chicken and grill and cook 2-4 minutes per side depending on the thickness of the chicken, covered. Discard marinade and bag. Serve with reserved marinade drizzled on top. The recipe’s author also notes that shallots vary in size, but you will need about ⅓ of a cup total as well as the juice from half a medium-sized lemon. This recipe was found on silkroadrecipes.com. READ NEXT: Spice-roasted cauliflower with tahini, sesame seeds