A suspect who was being sought for the murder of a police officer was fatally wounded in a shootout with officers in KwaZulu-Natal. Police said the gun battle took place at his hideout spot in Inanda on Tuesday morning. Spokesperson Jay Naicker said the suspect was fatally wounded when he attempted to kill more police officers. “Members of the K9 Unit, Directorate for Priority Crime Investigation (DPCI) Anti-Gang Unit and the DPCI National Priority Violent Crime were pursuing the suspect who shot and fatally wounded 40-year-old Constable Lindokuhle Gift Goba of the Durban K9 Unit and robbed him of his service pistol on Quarry Road in Mayville on Saturday,14 January 2023.” Naicker said investigations led the police to a hospital which two suspects were privately rushed to with gunshot wounds from the shootout with the slain police officer. ALSO READ: WATCH: Pointless crime or half-witted robbers who stink at stealing? “One suspect succumbed to his injuries and further investigations revealed the other suspect had discharged himself and escaped from the hospital ward.” “Through investigation, police identified a house in Inanda where the suspect was cornered. After the police had introduced and identified themselves as men of law, the suspect responded with a hail of bullets and a shootout ensued. During the shootout, the suspect was fatally wounded,” Naicker said.   Naicker said the Independent Police Investigative Directorate (Ipid) has been informed for further investigations. In a separate incident, the Hawks’ Serious Organised Crime Investigation members have arrested three suspects, aged between 27 and 48, for possession of copper cables in Modimolle on Monday. It is understood the Hawks received a tip-off about the suspects who were in possession of copper cables in Modimolle, and subsequently conducted an urgent sting operation. Hawks spokesperson Captain Matimba Maluleke said preliminary investigations revealed that the copper cables were destined for Gauteng. “The suspects are expected to appear in the Modimolle Magistrate’s Court on Tuesday, 17 January 2023, to face charges relating to possession of copper cable and Contravening the Immigration Act. The Hawks are still busy with the investigation to establish where the copper cables were coming from,” he said. ALSO READ: Blood on state’s hands as assassinations reach crisis levels in SA