The are a number of ways to improve on both your own pleasure and the kind of pleasure you derive from partnered intimate and sexual activity and today, we look at the best and trendiest sex toys to add to your collection in an effort to ramp up the dynamic in your sex life.  A lot of people make resolutions for every arena of their lives ahead of a new year and sexual pleasure is not an arena anyone should leave out of their resolutions whenever they’re planning to do things better.  According to Everyday Health, sex toy use is on the rise globally and in America, sex toy use among men in particular is also growing. The publication said that’s good news, since sex (and by extension, sex toys) can have many health benefits, such as improved heart health, a stronger immune system, reduced stress, and more, according to Cleveland Clinic. The publication further noted that the world of sex toys is extensive and varied and for that reason, most people can find shopping for toys intimidating.  Choosing the best sex toy, either for yourself, your partner or even your friends can take time and research. Below, we list some options to consider.  If you’re an avid social media user, you’ve probably seen some or other video mention the rose sex toy. It has become viral content at this point thanks to all the rave reviews it has gotten from celebrities and publications alike. Publications like Cosmopolitan and Mind Body Green have also featured articles about this viral toy.  According to sexologist and sex educator Goody Howard, MSW, MPH, the rose toy is a flower-shaped clitoral stimulation toy that uses air pulse and pressure technology to suck on the glans head of the clitoris. Mind Body Green further explains that this toy combines sucking and vibrating functions through a suction head that users say delivers unmatched stimulation and back-to-back orgasms. It is also important to note that it is not one specific product sold by one specific brand. In South Africa, it usually retails for about R900 depending on where you shop.  On the topic of clitoral stimulation, the team at Everyday Heath picked the Womanizer Pro W500 as the best clitoral stimulator.  They loved it because it boasts 12 intensity levels and a four-hour battery life along with a five-year warranty, however, it is more expensive than some clitoral stimulators.  ALSO READ: The ultimate sex positions for common problems, increased intimacy The Womanizer Pro W500 uses Pleasure Air Technology, which stimulates the clitoris with gently pulsing air pressure. According to the company’s website, these vibrating airwaves use suction and massage together to provide an orgasmic feeling without making direct contact with the clitoris. In South Africa, stores like Matilda’s (and other well-known sex shops) carry the Womanizer line of products and where they may not have the Womanizer Pro W500, they may be able to recommend similar products or sex toys. A cock ring or cockring is a ring worn around the penis, usually at the base.  The primary purpose of wearing a cock ring is to restrict the flow of blood from the erect penis to produce a stronger erection or to maintain an erection for a longer period of time. Thanks to advancements in technology, this type of toy also comes in a variation that vibrates and can either be used solo or as a couple.  You can expect to pay anything between R90 for a non-vibrating ring to R250 for an entry-level vibrating ring. Stores like Luvland even have a four-figure option in stock.  The massage wand, a.k.a the wand vibrator, a.k.a The Hitachi, has a history going back to the late 60s.  According to Cosmopolitan, this iconic vibrator is known to be symbolic of the sex-positive feminist movement of the 70s. Despite being one of the oldest toys on the market, the wand remains popular and effective.  Newer designs of the wand come in sleeker colours and designs thanks to the evolution of materials used for sex toys and you can expect to pay anything between R500 and R 2 000 depending on the size, design and brand of the wand you choose.  Described by Healthline as “a sex toy that can be enjoyed by anyone with an anus, regardless of genitalia, gender, or orientation”, a butt plug is a sex toy that simply plugs your butt hole.  If you’ve never used one and you may be wondering why anyone would want to plug their butts, experts say that this toy aids in stimulating the prostate and that this is a sensation that a large number of people – not just men – find pleasurable.  In addition to the stimulation it offers, this type of toy can be used to stretch the area in preparation for larger items like a partner or another toy.You can expect to spend anything north of R450 for a vibrating butt plug.  READ NEXT: Scientists develop bionic penis to restore erections in pigs