Besides Kaizer Chiefs’ embarrassing 4-0 drubbing at the hands of AmaZulu on Friday night, the headlines this week was owned by Chippa United head coach Morgan Mammila.ALSO READ: Mokotjo looking forward to playing in PSL after many years overseas The chief executive officer-come-coach is not one to mince his words and he has, over the past week, painted his thoughts brightly on a canvas for all to see. Mammila slammed Ernst Middendorp for prematurely declaring Mamelodi Sundowns as DStv Premiership champions. The Swallows mentor lost 2-0 to Masandawana and said Rulani Mokwena’s team are untouchable and no one can unseat them on the throne this season. Mammila, who also lost to Downs, had strong comments about coaching badges or the lack thereof, essentially suggesting that he, as a rookie mentor, has done better than his seasoned counterparts. “There are guys with Pro Licenses here and they have been here for many months. Go and check their wins, they are not even close to me. The stats don’t lie. Can you get a coach who can win four games in a row? I don’t need to be a white person to be where I am. My stats say I have won four, I’ve drawn two and lost three,” said Mammila.  The Eastern Cape side’s coach also branded Sundowns coach,, Mokwena, together with Pitso Mosimane, as his first choice for the Bafana Bafana coaching gig, completely ignoring Hugo Broos as the incumbent.  However, SuperSport United head coach, Gavin Hunt, believes Mammila should reserve his sharp comments in the media space, and rather speak to his counterparts directly. ALSO READ: Monare remains positive despite Pirates contract coming to an end “I don’t think it is right to comment about coaches. We have a guy who is making comments at the moment you know who I am talking about. I think he is looking for a job,” said Hunt. “You can’t be commenting about everything, it’s ridiculous, you can’t talk about things like that. There is a professional code of conduct that you should have (as a coach). When you see the person first hand then you tell him, that’s where the conversation is supposed to be, not in the media,” he added.