During the 2022 Fifa World Cup a cricket writer compared acts of brilliance by veteran masters of their arts. The one was a wicket-taking delivery English paceman James Anderson bowled in Test against Pakistan. The other one a pinch perfect pass – with a slightly bigger ball – from Argentine World Cup winning-captain Lionel Messi against the Netherlands. The writer’s hilarious social media post promoting the story said: “I used Anderson as an excuse to write about Messi”. I reckoned if a cricketing wordsmith can find a way to accommodate Messi in his routine, so can a motoring scribe. Our excuse to write about the footballing genius befell the Renault Clio. And it has nothing to do with Messi and co beat France, where Renault’s roots lie, in the World Cup final. Our comparison is about the make-up of B-segment hatchbacks in South Africa. The popular Volkswagen Polo has built up such a massive following that it overshadows rivals on reputation alone. ALSO READ: VW Polo most popular pre-owned hatchback for under R200k Now this is where Messi comes in. Like the Polo, he also steals the show from his Argentine team-mates. In fact, I bet many newfound Argentina fans will struggle to name another player other than Messi. Does this mean the rest of the 26-man squad that won in Qatar are bad players? Of course not. The same applies to the Polo’s rivals. The Hyundai i20, Kia Rio, Peugeot 208, Opel Corsa and in this case the Renault Clio are all good products despite trailing the Polo by a country mile in the monthly sales charts. After driving the fifth-generation Clio for a week shortly after its local launch last year, we renewed out vows for a whole month over the festive season. Our house guest was the range-topping Intens derivative fitted with the Intens Option Pack and clad in Glacier White. On styling alone, the Renault Clio’s seductive curves make a strong statement against its rivals. A prominent raised front grille and badge, flanked by Renault’s familiar C-shaped LED headlamps, sets the tone for a very attractive exterior package. It also features sculpted sides with chrome trim lines, concealed rear door handles, large LED taillights that extend into the tailgate and stunning 17-inch diamond cut alloys. ALSO READ: Renault confirms 2023 plans headlined by Captur and Oroch On the inside, the Clio is elegantly styled and feels solid and well-built. The seven-inch fully digital instrument cluster is easy to operate from the steering wheel controls, while access to the 9.3-inch infotainment system comes by virtue of a dedicated control arm behind the steering wheel. The entertainment system features six speakers, navigation and smartphone and Bluetooth compatibility. Spacewise the Clio is perfectly suited for everyday life. There is adequate head and leg room for three adults in the rear, while the 391-litre boot is more than enough for daily school runs and monthly grocery shopping. The fifth-generation Clio is powered by a three-pot 1.0-litre turbo petrol engine which produces 74 kW of power and 160 Nm of torque which is sent to the front wheels by five-speed manual transmission. The Citizen Motoring will not lie about the love/hate relationship we experienced with the Clio’s mill. While its turbo lag during acceleration when pulling away from a standstill can be annoying getting used to, the zippier performance working through second and third compensates for that. Once you reach cruising speed, the Clio’s ability to hold onto it revs under strain in higher gears is commendable. While its only natural anticipating that you’ll have to gear down to keep it on the boil, it does a remarkably good job keeping momentum despite inclines and heavy loads. The closest we came to matching Renault’s fuel consumption claim of 5.7L/100 km was 6.2L/100 km over a 200km open road trip, which was quite impressive taking into the Clio carried five adults. In town, where most Clios will probably spent most of their life cycles, the consumption was somewhere in the mid-sevens. The Renault Clio offers a comprehensive safety package which includes six airbags, electronic stability control, ABS with EBD, emergency brake assist, front and rear parking distance sensors, lane departure warning, reverse camera and ISOFIX child seat anchors. While the manual box is smooth and easy to operate, Renault might have missed trick not offering it in a two-pedal option as most as all its rivals does. The demand for automatic cars is on a steady rise even without the constant pounding your left leg takes during load shedding in rush hour. But the Renault Clio is a good product nonetheless that looks and feels good, offers an enjoyable drive and relative competitive pricing. Much like French countryman Kylian Mbappe after the World Cup final, the Clio has nothing to be ashamed of in the presence of a bigger starboy. The Renault Clio Intens costs R364 999, with the Intens Option Pack an additional R15 000. The pack includes the 17-inch wheels, 9.3-inch infotainment system, rear parking sensors and reverse camera. The Renault Clio Intens comes standard with a five-year/150 000km warranty and two-year/30 000km service plan.