Luxury social media content creator and real estate agent Kefilwe Mabote made a surprising announcement that she is getting married.  Kefilwe shared an Instagram reel of herself in traditional clothing for the lobola proceedings and the cows her mystery partner bought for their union.  The compilation video is the soundtrack by award-winning singer Kelly Khumalo’s song Uthando.  Her future husband made payments in the form of cows (lobola) to her family, showing gratitude for letting the husband marry their daughter, the popular content creator revealed. Kefilwe wrote: ”03•01•2023 ….This time it is to infinity.  “I remember God’s teachings vividly, stumbling across Psalm 37:4 which read: “Delight yourself in the Lord, and He will give you the desires of your heart.” In the video, Kefilwe shows off her engagement ring as congratulations poured in from celebrity friends such as Shauwn ‘Mamkhize’ Mkhize, Minnie Dlamini, Boity and Cassper Nyovest.  ALSO READ: WATCH: Kefilwe Mabote flaunts her new ‘contoured body’ Mamkhize hinted at who Kefilwe’s mystery man may be, referring to him as “Mkhwenyana”.  Kefilwe’s dresses were designed by Gert-Johan Coetzee.  Many Twitters users also congratulated Kefilwe, with some predicting she will have “the white wedding of the century”.  Woke up to this! Congratulations to Kefilwe ❤️ one composed and classy lady in the “ industry” who you’ll never hear arguing on lives over some dumb ish. You deserve it Kefi ✨ pic.twitter.com/ixnM2sNfcV— Kagiso Mashabela (@K_Gawddess) January 19, 2023 Another baddie down ???? congratulations on your union Kefilwe ???? pic.twitter.com/yomxnQyje0— Kagiso Mashabela (@K_Gawddess) January 19, 2023 Kefilwe getting married and not even a single leak is amazing , love her circle for that..— Shannon Ramaila (@shannon_ramaila) January 19, 2023 Kefilwe is about to have the wedding of the century— Nandi (@QueenNandii) January 19, 2023 The man marrying Kefilwe paid lobola with Bonsmara cows. Ja ne????????????????— Fairy Quadmother (@BandzOfTroy) January 19, 2023 With her work resume growing, Kefilwe is growing her real estate company JHB Live Real Estate which focuses on the higher end of the housing market.  However, it’s her relationship status that has done the most publicity. She was previously linked to controversial businessman Edwin Sodi in 2020.  She later confirmed in early 2021 that their relationship had ended.  The former couple made headlines in October 2020 when Sodi was arrested for his alleged involvement in the controversial multimillion rand Free State asbestos audit project. He was publicly arrested and had most of his assets seized. Her relationship at the time was “happy, healthy and private” and insisted that they did not have any business ties, Kefilwe said.