The South African Weather Service (SAWS) has warned of heatwave conditions, persistently high temperatures exceeding average maximum, in the southwestern parts of Free State, the south east and central parts of Northern Cape today until Monday. Affected areas include the Sarah Baartman DM, Chris Hani DM, Amathole DM, OR Tambo DM, Walter Sisulu LM and Mbizana LM in the Eastern Cape and the Central and Little Karoo (Western Cape). “Under this condition, a prolong exposure to the midday sun poses health risks, hence, is advisable to seek shades and keep hydrated,” warned the weather service.  Extremely high fire danger conditions are expected over the northern parts of Northern Cape as well asover the interior of the Namakwa (Northern Cape), Central and Little Karoo (Western Cape). ALSO READ: Heatwave to hit parts of Western Cape on Wednesday Western Cape Tomorrow 's Weather overview: 13.1.2023 pic.twitter.com/1jRGV9cxh1— SA Weather Service (@SAWeatherServic) January 12, 2023 Gauteng: Partly cloudy in the north-east, otherwise fine and warm to hot. The expected UVB sunburn index: Extreme. Mpumalanga: Cloudy in the east with morning drizzle and fog patches along the escarpment, otherwise partly cloudy and warm to hot. Limpopo: Cloudy in the east and north with isolated showers, otherwise partly cloudy and warm to hot. North West: Fine and hot weather. Free State: Fine and hot to very hot, becoming partly cloudy in the south, with isolated showers and thundershowers in the extreme south. Northern Cape: Partly cloudy and very hot to extremely hot with isolated showers and thundershowers in the extreme south east. The wind along the coast will be Light to moderate southerly to southeasterly. Western Cape: Partly cloudy and cool along the coast with fog along the West coast in the morning, otherwise fine and warm to hot but very hot over the Central Karoo district. LISTEN: Expect a wet 2023, with above normal rainfall until expected till autumn It will become cloudy to partly over the extreme east towards the evening. The wind along the coast will be light and variable north of Table Bay becoming moderate to fresh south-westerly to southerly from the afternoon but strong at times in places, otherwise moderate north-westerly to westerly until late morning when it will be moderate to fresh southerly to south-westerly becoming light and variable towards the end of the period. The expected UVB sunburn index: Extreme Western half of the Eastern Cape: Partly cloudy and hot to very hot, but warm along the coast. Isolated thunderstorms can be expected along and south of the escarpment. The wind along the coast will be fresh to strong southwesterly east of Algoa Bay at first, otherwise moderate to fresh westerly, becoming southwesterly from late morning. Eastern half of the Eastern Cape: Partly cloudy and hot to very hot, but warm along the coast. Isolated thunderstorms can be expected along and south of the escarpment. The wind along the coast will be Strong northeasterly along the wild coast at first, otherwise moderate to fresh southwesterly. KwaZulu-Natal: Cloudy in the north at first with isolated showers in the extreme north-east, otherwise partly cloudy and hot to very hot. The wind along the coast will be Moderate to fresh northerly to north-easterly. The expected UVB sunburn index: Extreme. ALSO READ: Very high chance of rain, thundershowers in first week of 2023