South Africa’s longest running soapie, Muvhango, continues to win hearts as it debuts a bigger and better season 24. The show, currently going for 26 years, continues to reach generations of viewers through intriguing storylines and strong characters, and remains a favourite among critics and fans alike. Over the years, the SABC2 soapie has introduced audiences to actors who have become household names. Actors like Sindi Dlathu who played Thandaza Mokoena, Maumela Mahuwa who plays Susan, and Gabriel Temudzani who plays Chief Azwindini. The show has also seen a lot of industry greats play brief roles and it is also where Khanyi Mbau got her start in the industry when she took over the role of Doobsie. ALSO SEE: ‘Boer Soek ‘n Vrou’: 50 outfits per season and other interesting facts about the show In September 2022, the Venda soapie embarked on a ‘talent search’ to get new actors to join the show. At the time, Azwi Rambuda, said the purpose of the auditions are to revive the show and bring new talent. “Over the years, we have lived up to that and created new stars that have become household names in the industry. We want to make it easy for youngsters to get a break in the industry,” she said last year. The latest season is centred around the lives of the royal Mukwevho family and the Motsamai family, and brings multi-layered storylines that involve love, passion, drama, secrets and revenge. Twists and turns, including the return of Mpho’s dodgy brother and her miraculous financial rollercoaster, a challenge to Chief Azwindinni’s leadership of Thathe and a precarious scenario for the Motsamai family, are to be expected on the show, which airs on weekdays. What will happen to Chief Azwindinni’s throne? Is Fheli and Vhangani‘s relationship written in the stars? What kind of results may we expect from the Motsamai’s attempt at polygamy? Will justice be served against the Mukwevho family? Don’t miss Muvhango season 24 airing every Monday – Friday from 9pm – 9.30pm on SABC 2.  NOW READ: Congratulations pour in as Kefilwe Mabote gets married