Mamelodi Sundowns continue to answer all challenges posed in the DStv Premiership title race, wearing down Moroka Swallows in a 2-0 home victory on Tuesday at Loftus Stadium. ALSO READ: Zwane gets compliment from former Swallows player After being frustrated by Swallows for over an hour, Neo Maema blasted Masandawana in front and Themba Zwane killed off the Birds with a quite brilliant strike as Sundowns moved seven points clear of SuperSport United at the top of the table. SuperSport had moved to within four points of Sundowns for a brief period earlier in the day, Bradley Grobler’s late strike, the 34 year-old’s 7th league goal of the season giving Gavin Hunt’s men a 1-0 win at Cape Town City, their second 1-0 victory since the resumption of the season. Sundowns are relentless, however, and have now won eight Premiership games on the spin. With Peter Shalulile still out injured, it was left to Cassius Mailula to lead the Sundowns attack, the 21 year old coming in off the back of a run of four goals in three league games. Swallows, however, proved stubborn opposition, with Ernst Middendorp’s appointment giving them some renewed defensive steel. While Teboho Mokoena tested Swallows ‘keeper Thakasani Mbanjwa early on and Mailula headed over, it was Swallows who created the best opportunity of the opening period. Bafana captain Ronwen Williams had to be at his best as he plunged to his right to keep out a header from Swallows defender Kwanda Mngonyama. Sundowns pressed forward after the break and Gaston Sirino drew a good save from Mbanjwa at his near post. And Masandawana went in front in the 63rd minute as Maema gathered the ball, cut past his man, and sent a fine shot across Mbanjwa and into the net. Just four minutes later, Sundowns doubled their lead with a superb strike from Zwane, as he surged through the midfield, exchanged passes with Mailula, and cooly slotted past Mbanjwa. Swallows didn’t let their heads drop and Waseem Isaacs clattered the Sundowns crossbar, but it wasn’t to be in the end for Middendorp’s men. In Tuesday night’s other games Brandon Truter got a first win in charge of Sekhukhune United as they beat Limpopo rivals Marumo Gallants 3-2, Victor Letsoalo grabbing a brace, doubling his Premiership tally for the season in one go. TS Galaxy and Royal AM, meanwhile, played out a goalless draw.