Stellenbosch FC are unlikely to entertain any offers for their players in January and this could mean Kaizer Chiefs will not get the two men they wish for from the Western Cape side. ALSO READ: Chiefs coach Zwane not panicking despite third loss in a row Chiefs are believed to be interested in two of Stellies players in Junior Mendieta and Sibongiseni Mthethwa.  Both are key players in Steve Barker’s side who have now been dragged into the relegation zone and will need every player they have to try and move away. Stellies fell deeper into the relegation hole on Sunday following a 4-1 loss to Olando Pirates in the DStv Premiership at Orlando Stadium.  According to a source, Stellies had already said no to Chiefs on Mthethwa, saying they can only negotiate at the end of the season. But even then nothing is guaranteed.  “I don’t see any move happening now. They sounded like they would be able to release Mendieta in exchange for one of the players plus some money.  “But now that they are deep in the relegation zone, I don’t think they will be okay with losing any of their players, especially the key ones.  “I think Chiefs will have to come back next season if they are to get any player,” said a source close to one of the players. Mthethwa was seen as a perfect replacement for Njabulo Blom who recently left Chiefs for US Major League Soccer side St Louis City. Mendieta would be expected to be the team’s playmaker with Khama Billiat now spending more time in the club’s medical unit than on the field. Amakhosi meanwhile announced two new additions to their arsenal last week with Thatayaone Dithlokwe and Christian Saile Basomboli.  Dithlokwe will however link up with his new team in July after his contract at SuperSport United ends.  The Botswana national team captain might however be allowed to leave early and head to Naturena in the current transfer window. He signed a pre-contract with Chiefs.  The lanky Congolese striker has already started training at Amakhosi after joining from Nchanga Rangers in Zambia where he was said to be a top player. Basomboli can play both as a winger and a target man. It is said however that his preferred position is on the wing.