The first week of Big Brother Titans saw some twists, turns, loved-up couples and breakups ending off with a surprise announcement by the hosts of the competition going forward.  Viewers of Big Brother Titans have seen brand-new contestants from Nigeria and South Africa, a fusion of Big Brother Mzansi and Big Brother Naija.  However, during week one, new housemates were introduced to the mix, which include Blue Aiva and Theo Traw from South Africa, and Sandra and Miracle from Nigeria.  These new housemates have turned up the heat as there is US$100 000 (around R1.7 million) up for grabs.  It has been a week of game plans, pool parties, some drama, and dance-offs. Hosts Lawrence Maleka and Ebuka Obi-Uchendu hosted the live show on Sunday.  It was expected that a housemate would be eliminated from the Big Brother Titans house, but there was some reprieve for the contestants as there were no evictions this week.  The housemates had to nominate a person who they felt needed to be evicted. During the live show, nine of them had been nominated, an eye-opening moment for the contestants.  Lawrence posed a few questions to some of the Big Brother Titans housemates such as Justin, who has been quiet during the competition. Many viewers complained that he’s not adding anything to the show.  Justin responded that he liked to watch and observe, but Ebuka wasn’t impressed and said: “I don’t know if ‘standing back and observing’ works on a show like this, but good luck.” Jenni O has used her cooking skills to woo her competitors and Ebuka wondered why she does it. She replied: “I just love cooking. Once you feed people, they’re happy. The kitchen is also where you hear everything. I like to hear things.”  The hosts hinted that there will be a twist coming soon, but shared nothing more than that. Things took an interesting turn on Monday morning when there was an altercation between some of the women which included Sandra, Olivia and Yvonne.  Olivia appeared aggravated that her housemates were not taking her seriously and that Sandra was antagonising her. Many housemates had to hold both the ladies back to avoid a physical altercation.  Sandra and Olivia woke up and decided to start violence ???? #BBTitans2023 #BBTitians #BBTitans pic.twitter.com/tclzNEtgDi— BBTITANS 24/7 UPDATES (@FreebiesloadedM) January 23, 2023 Sandra just set herself up. Alpha females don't create beef out of nothing. Eat dust girl. The only alpha female tonight was in Blue and her name is Queen Khosi ???? #BBTitans pic.twitter.com/MV32h7JDQK— Queen Giant ⚡️ (@BBAFaves) January 22, 2023 “ In Nigeria when you leave big brother you are a celebrity, but in SA when you leave you are just an influencer ” You totally gotta go hard and win it – Thabang 2023 #BBTitans#BBTitans2023 #BBTitan pic.twitter.com/J07vAmY3SR— Drizzle⛲ (@0rizle) January 22, 2023 Worst pairings have to be Yvonne & Justin plus Thabang & Nana ????????#BBTitans pic.twitter.com/827cMHyKsI— ???????????????? (@tamilore99) January 22, 2023 I love this pairing Khosi & Miracle  ???????????? #BBTitans pic.twitter.com/pWwZGuuy7i— Malume Bae Asanda (@AsandaBhenya) January 22, 2023