Under fire Orlando Pirates coach Jose Riveiro will have midfielder Goodman Mosele available when they meet Golden Arrows at the weekend.  ALSO READ: Shalulile on target as Sundowns edge Chippa and extend lead The Buccaneers host Abafana Bes’thende at Orlando Stadium for a DStv Premiership match on Saturday.  Mosele has been a notable absentee in the Pirates midfield following his injury earlier this season.  Before the injury ruled Mosele out, he had built a formidable partnership with Miguel Timm in the centre of the Bucs midfield.  A number of other midfielders have been tried as a means to fill the gap since Mosele’s injury but none has shown ability to plug it.  Ben Motshwari, Fortune Makaringe and Thabang Monare have all been given a run alongside Timm but no combination has come of it yet.  Mosele returns at a crucial time for Pirates as their chances of finishing in a respectable position on the log seem to be diminishing with each game.  The Soweto side have fallen down to eight position on the log standings with 19 points after 15 games.  They now trail leaders and defending champions Mamelodi Sundowns by an unbelievable 21 points with 15 games to the end. ALSO READ: Kaizer Chiefs and Orlando Pirates are like Eskom Pirates have failed to collect maximum points in their last five matches which has seen them leg behind and pull off the league title race.  And while mathematically the chances are still there for Pirates to wrestle the league title from Sundowns, it looks an unrealistic task.  The best that Riveiro’s side can now do now is to push for a top three finish to ensure their return to continental football next season.  If they fail to do so, it will be the second year in a row that Pirates do not feature in the Caf club competitions.  Pirates failed to make the cut this year after finishing in fifth place last season. Sundowns, Cape Town City, Royal AM and Marumo Gallants represented South Africa at Caf this season.  It is however only Sundowns who remain in the competition where they have been grouped with Al Ahly again in the group stages of the Caf Champions League.