A moniker often forgotten from the Volkswagen lexicon as it often takes prevalence below the GTI, the automaker has injected new life into GTS designation for a performance version of the Polo in Brazil. Effectively the substitute for the Polo GTI not offered in said market, the GTS boasts styling aspects derived from its sibling such as the deeper lower intake, Matrix LED headlights, wider door sills, sportier front and rear bumpers and a GTI-esque red underscored grille complete with a red GTS logo. At the rear, and due to the Brazilian version not receiving the same updates as the European and South African-spec Polo last year, the pre-facelift light clusters remain, along with a colour coded faux diffuser. ALSO READ: Polo GTI a race car straight off the showroom floor Besides the lights, the only other difference at the rear is the GTS badge that replaces the GTI insignia underneath the Volkswagen emblem on the bootlid. A set of 18-inch Polo GTI alloy wheels rounds the GTS’ exterior off. Inside, the unique to Brazil 10.1-inch touchscreen infotainment system with Apple CarPlay and Android Auto comes as standard, along with the 10.25-inch Active Info Display digital instrument cluster, a wireless smartphone charger, the touch-sensitive climate control panel, push-button start, keyless entry, rain sense wipers, a reverse camera and front as well as rear parking sensors. Bespoke to the GTS is a black roofliner, a faux leather wrapped steering wheel with red detailing, GTS branding and physical buttons, red stitching, a new gear knob and sport seats with GTS embroidered front headrests. The main difference from the Polo GTI resides underneath the GTS’ bonnet where the 2.0 TSI engine makes way for the smaller 1.4 TSI the South African-market Polo doesn’t have. Found, however, in the Tiguan and T-Roc, the long-serving unit, which gave way to the bigger 1.5 TSI Evo in Europe more than five years ago, produces its customary 110kW/250Nm delivered to the front wheels through a six-speed Tiptronic gearbox as opposed to the GTI’s seven-speed DSG. Top speed is pegged at 206 km/h with the 0-100 km/h dash taking a claimed 8.3 seconds. Sharing a further similarity with its more illustrious sibling is the standard inclusion of the XDS electronic front differential. Decked-out in a choice of five colours; Crystal White, Ninja Black, Sirius Silver Metallic, Platinum Grey Metallic and the model specific Sunset Red, pricing for the Polo GTS kicks-off at R $145 790 (R483 806) with production radiating from Volkswagen’s São Bernardo do Campo Plant. Unsurprisingly, the GTS won’t be offered in South Africa anytime soon as a more accessible sportier Polo that bridges the current vacant gap between the 85 kW 1.0 TSI R-Line DSG priced at R445 500 and the GTI that retails from R522 500. Despite the gap, the GTS wasn’t named in Volkswagen’s line-up of models heading for South Africa this year, though should it be considered or even approved, expect it to possibly keep hold of the 1.4 TSI engine and enter production alongside its siblings at the plant in Kariega, formerly Uitenhage, in the Eastern Cape. Additional information and images from motor1.com Brazil and autoesporte.globo.com.