DJ Lamiez Holworthy-Morule has celebrated her mother Imelda Klow by gifting her something she will remember for a long time.  The mother and daughter shared the special moment on their Instagram accounts, as Lamiez gifted her mother a car on her birthday and received what can easily be described as queen treatment.  Posting a video of the special moment, Klow can be seen being glammed up, with a professional makeup artist at hand as she was escorted to a secret location.  Klow was blindfolded as Lamiez’s siblings Lariezh and Lushaan Holworthy helped escort their mother to the unveiling of the vehicle at a car dealership.  As the car was revealed the matriarch of the family was emotional and said she was very happy. She was gifted a Volkswagen SUV, as Lamiez is heard in the background saying; “I love you, mommy.”  Lamiez wrote: “Celebrated the most important woman in my life’s birthday the other day. All that I am, I owe to my mother.” “What a blessed and beautiful day.”  She further wrote: “Dear Mama… “THE MATRIARCH- Leader of our tribe, thank you for all that you do for us, for all the sacrifices and all the teachings. “My greatest gift that I get from her? HER HEART. Anyone whose been fortunate enough to experience her can attest to it. We love you mommy @imeldak20 “A big s/o to my siblings @lush_thechef and @lariezhholworthy – WE DID IT! “P.S. Notice how the only person that really mattered there was mom’s grandson?! We’re in trouble!”  Klow thanked people for celebrating with her and said: “When I saw all your wishes in my inbox, on my wall, a phone call, your presence, I whispered a little prayer – May you all always be with me through many more birthdays. Thank you for being there for me.  “Thank you, family, friends, colleagues, [and] acquaintances, for your wonderful birthday wishes, for your irreplaceable gifts and for your unforgettable smiles. Love always.”  The star DJ is expecting her first child with her husband Khuli Chana. The mom-to-be has been honest about the pregnancy challenges she has experienced such as abdominal pains, nausea and migraines.  She has also called out cyberbullies who criticise women’s pregnancy journeys.  READ NEXT: ‘Stop using me to drag pregnant women’ – Lamiez