Armoured vehicle manufacturer, SVI Engineering, has showcased its latest project based on the Nissan Patrol. Discreet in appearance with little differentiating from the standard model, the improvements have all taken place underneath the Nissan’s skin where two different levels of armouring protection packages are offered. Compared to the standard B4, which fends-off attacks from handguns up to .44 Magnums, the more extensive B6 pack consists of added custom-made armoured steel plates, 38 mm high-grade ballistics glass, composite materials and a new toughened-up partition behind the middle row. When fitted, the B6 not only provides protection from common assault rifles attacks, but also from those involving AK47s, R5 and R1s.   ALSO READ: WATCH: Own a fuel station? Then Nissan Patrol’s perfect for you As a means of compensating for the added weight, SVI has upgraded the standard Patrol’s suspension, as well as the door hinges and several components underneath the bonnet. No changes have taken place to the powerunit itself though, meaning outputs of 298kW/560Nm from the normally aspirated 5.6-litre V8 engine. Entrusted with sending the amount of twist to all four corners is a seven-speed automatic gearbox. Similar to drivetrain, the interior design continues without any modifications, with the hints being the thicker glass once the windows are opened. “Like the popular (Toyota) Land Cruiser 300, the Patrol has a storied history and serves as the brand’s longest-running nameplate today,” SVI’s Business Development Director, Nicol Louw said in a statement. “With a legacy stretching back more than seven decades and a robust ladder-frame construction, the latest Patrol was the obvious next recipient of our comprehensive B6 bullet-resistant package.” Excluding the Patrol itself, which carries a sticker price of R1 683 900, both the B4 and B6 packages carry a one year/50 000 km warranty with the former priced from R722 158 and the latter from R981 823. Optionally available for the B6 is expanded armouring on the roof and floor, a PA system, nudge bar and heavy-duty run-flat tyres. More information on SVI Engineering can be found here.