South African Consumer Device Group Huawei is kicking the year off with a bang by releasing what it calls “an exciting new line-up of products” in January. Leading the pack of products to be released this year is the brand’s futuristic, high-end, flagship smartphone, the Mate50 Pro. This will be followed by the Huawei FreeBuds 5i and the Huawei MatePad SE 10.4-inch. The brand is proud to have consistently pursued trailblasing innovations and considers its Mate Series “the crown jewel of its unabating efforts to bring cutting-edge technology to smartphones”.  According to Huawei, the Mate Series distinguishes itself from other high-end flagship models with each generation and incorporates visionary features that provide the ultimate digital experience for consumers. The latest iteration of the flagship series boasts an Iconic Symmetrical Space Ring Design, an astonishing Ultra Aperture XMAGE Camera and ultra-reliable performance in addition to the exceptional Super Device features spearheaded by EMUI 13 operating system. “The Huawei Mate50 Pro embodies the brand’s flagship technology advancements and innovations. It boasts industry-first features, like the Ultra Aperture XMAGE, which features a one-of-a-kind optical system, with 10 size adjustments to the physical aperture via adjustable blades. The smartphone’s Kunlun Glass is certified by Switzerland’s SGS with 5-star glass drop resistance,” said Huawei Vice President of Operations Akhram Mohamed in a statement.   READ: Five features to look for in a mid-range 5G Android smartphone “These elements, amongst others, make Huawei truly proud to launch the Huawei Mate50 Pro in South Africa, which is a reflection of the brand’s commitment to exploring the endless frontiers of technology,” concluded Mohamed.   According to the manufacturer, the device – which is set to launch this week – has vast advantages over the competition in terms of its design, rear camera system, new strengthened glass, battery and wireless supercharging.  This makes the smartphone a must-have purchase for 2023. The Huawei Mate50 Pro can be pre-ordered on the Huawei online store or at selected network providers, including Vodacom, MTN, Telkom and Cell C. At the time of writing, there was no retail price information available. RSP information will be communicated after the launch.  WATCH: Apple unveils second gen HomePod with temperature and humidity sensors Compiled by Kaunda Selisho