Dar es Salaam. The Tanzania Communications Regulatory Authority (TCRA) has announced plans to strengthen its regulatory role in ensuring the quality of electronic communication services in the country. The announcement was made by the authority’s director general, Dr Jabiri Bakari, during a session at the Mwalimu Julius Nyerere Leadership School in the Coast region. The session was designed to increase the work capacity of the authority employees as the New Year begins. Dr Jabiri urged the authority staff to stay on top of the implementation of the set strategic plans, making sure that the telecommunications, postal, and broadcasting sectors are strategically managed and electronic communication service providers are well governed. He also emphasized the importance of enhancing the agency’s assessment of service quality that service providers render to citizens. “After completing this seminar, we want you to continue to work hard to ensure that the regulated sector thrives in accordance with predetermined goals,” he said. “I understand that we are intimately familiar with all of our customers that we serve. This round let’s achieve more miles and make the sector even better,” he insisted. As a first step in ensuring the quality of communication services is well maintained and regulated, the Authority shall deactivate all active sim cards that have not been verified using the National ID number by end of this month. This measure is aimed at ensuring that only authorized individuals have access to electronic communication services. The principal of the leadership school, Prof Marcellina Mvula Chijoriga, praised the good work that TCRA has been doing in the country by regulating communication services and reminded seminar attendees that training is a crucial element in any organization if it is to maximize potential and achieve the desired outcome. “I thank TCRA management for organizing this session because, as I often tell my students, you cannot experience growth in this contemporary world that changes so rapidly if you do not update your knowledge and renew what you know,” she emphasized. Seminar attendees, including Samson, complimented the Authority for boosting staff technical capabilities and know-how for the good of the advancement of the communication sector. “I take this opportunity to thank our director general and the entire Authority Management team for allowing us to convene here to enhance our technical skills of sector-related issues, this is indeed beneficial” he added. TCRA conducts a quarterly joint service quality evaluation, a task that the regulatory chief executive has pledged will be relentlessly pursued this year, to ensure that Internet service providers (ISPs), telecommunications companies (telcos), broadcasting, and the entire communication sector meet quality criteria. The agency regulates the country’s electronic and postal communications, as well as spectrum management. In addition to ensuring service quality and allocating spectrum in compliance with International Telecommunication Union regulations, the organization is also responsible for communication spectrum management and allocation. Overall, this move by TCRA is aimed at ensuring that the citizens of Tanzania have access to high-quality electronic communication services, which are vital for economic growth and development. The Authority has promised to continue working diligently to ensure that the regulated sector thrives in accordance with predetermined goals and that the communication sector is well-managed and governed.