It happens sometimes that players just don’t understand the coach, and that is what happened to Kaitano Tembo at Sekhukhune United.  ALSO READ: Zwane wants new Chiefs striker Basomboli to ‘hit ground running’ This is at least according to local football analyst Siphiwe Mkhonza. Mkhonza says Sekhukhune players may have worked Tembo out of the job.  Tembo was fired by Sekhukhune after a run of poor results that saw the Limpopo side stuck in the relegation zone.  Brandon Truter was brought on as his replacement and he has worked like a magic wand, winning four games in a row.  Sekhukhune have since flown off to the other end of the DStv Premiership standings and are now among the contenders for second spot. “We must understand the dynamics of football. I think that players when they don’t buy into your way of doing things… “I am talking about Kaitano’s situation,” said Mkhonza in a radio interview with SAfm this week.“Yes, they did a major overhaul and were a new team in terms of the players they signed.  “But Kaitano struggled with that team with all the ammunition he had. He had four top strikers in the likes of Tashriq Morris and (Tshegofatso) Mabasa.  “It tells you that the players sometimes… Especially when they don’t believe what you are telling them in the dressing room.  “Just look, Truter has just got there and the players have started enjoying what they do. I have watched their training sessions and I could tell the players enjoy the drills.  “That tells you the players have been revived by the new voice in the dressing room. And obviously he has come with a different way of playing which suits the players that are there.  “But if you don’t understand the football dynamics you would not understand player power.  “I am not, however, saying the players forced Kaitano out. They needed a different voice and hopefully they will keep the consistency in the application.”  ALSO READ: Analyst berates Maduka’s coaching style, says he needs to improve It will meanwhile be interesting to see if Sekhukhune will continue their winning run when they meet Mamelodi Sundowns at the weekend. Sundowns have also been on an impressive run of their own and have won 13 games in a row, setting a new record in the PSL era.