Streaming service Showmax is wasting no time in the new year as they have announced the return of The Real Housewives of Durban, launching on 1 February 2023.  For months, there have been rumours about who will be returning to the show, who won’t and which new faces will be joining and now, the streaming service has put a stop to all the noise with the official announcement introducing three new cast members.  Showmax promises that the new cast will be bringing “all the class, glamour, sass and drama we’ve come to love and expect from the franchise”. eThekwini queens Maria Valaskatzis, Mbali Ngiba and Slindile Wendy Ndlovu are the new additions to the reality series.  The new faces are set to join returning cast members Annie Mthembu, Jojo Robinson, Nonku Williams and Sorisha Naidoo. Maria Isabella Valaskatzis is a television presenter, producer and writer. She is the director of media and communications agency MV Consulting and is the co-owner of video production company VKATZPK Media.  Slindile is a human resource consultant by qualification, with experience in events management and interior designing. She is also the founder of events management company Mawesi Consulting.  Mbali is a musician and actress and the co-founder of African Centric Designs. Season one’s 2021 launch set a then-record for the most first-day views on Showmax ever, trended on Twitter almost every Friday, and became one of the 10 most-watched titles on Showmax that year.  It went on to be released in the US on Bravo, the original home of the hit The Real Housewives franchise, as well as on NBC Universal’s streaming service Peacock and in 27 countries on hayu.  Season 2 launched in 2022 and again topped the charts on Showmax and Twitter. “Considering the magnitude and popularity of The Real Housewives of Durban, the new additions hope that their presence in the show will not only provide them with new opportunities, but also assist in their self-growth and inspire many women who watch the show,” explained Showmax in a statement.  “I joined season three as it felt like a great opportunity for me to be a part of such a successful franchise amongst such amazing women. When watching season one and two, I couldn’t shake off the feeling that I’d also add great value as a cast member. So when they approached me I agreed. I also joined because I’d like to see some personal growth within myself as an individual and as a business,” explained Mbaliyezwe Ngiba. “The Real Housewives of Durban is such an amazing platform, where women can showcase their personalities and talents. The show consists of cast members that have very strong personas and I think that my personality will help balance out the various types of energies that we all have. The decision to join is also rooted in my activism for women empowerment and mental health. So I believe that by having this cohesion with the other six ladies, we can definitely use this platform to make change and inspire other women,” said Maria Isabella Valaskatzis. ALSO READ Real Housewives: Durban goes international ahead of Joburg’s return  “I echo my cast members’ sentiments about the vast opportunities The Real Housewives of Durban presents for all of us, and especially for our overall personal growth. For me, this is an avenue to start all over and rebuild not only as an individual but also as a single mother. I come from a six-year relationship, which I feel I wasted my time and energy in. I gave it my all, so when that didn’t work out, I thought, ‘Why not? Let me try this’. This platform grants you the chance to promote and rebrand, especially when you’re coming from a place of starting over again,” added Slindile Ndlovu.   Returning cast members have reassured fans that what was left in season two will definitely be picked up in season three and that fans may see them differently.  The cast member that fans currently love to hate, Annie, said that what audience members know of her in previous seasons will remain in the past and this time around, people will get to experience a bit more depth from her.  “I don’t think Annie from season one and two will be any different from this upcoming season. I think in season three we’ll be unravelling more layers of who I am. I also think I was viewed as a bit of a harsh individual – not to say that I will stop speaking my mind but I’m hoping in this season viewers will understand why I am such a person,” she said. Jojo, on the other hand, seems to want to ramp things up this season, promising that the “extraness” of her life will probably be more evident this time around.  “I really tried to come into this season with a new level of calm, but unfortunately that went out the window really fast. I feel like my life in general has become more extra!  “We’ve bought new cars; I have a new body, new tattoos and we’re doing major alterations to our home. The soft life has somewhat become softer and I’m here for it,” said Jojo.  Nonku has one mission this season and that is to be an “efficient person”. “In season one, people didn’t really know me and I was also still trying to establish and put my name out there so I felt very misunderstood. Season two came, and people then started to get to know Nonku a bit better. Now in season three, I think I’ve established myself. I am understood and even though fame comes with the territory, I am not interested in fame, all I want is to be effective,” said Nonku. Sorisha guarantees that viewers will witness a different side of her. “The Sorisha in season one and two has been chilled, mild and very nice. I’m an empath, and I’ve always been an empath, but I feel like there is also a time where one realises that enough is enough. I’ve taken on a spiritual journey to find myself. This journey is also teaching me how to be more assertive, which means I have to learn to say no and do things differently and I’ve started doing that. I’ve really started to come into my own. When you reach your mid-40s, you realise how you want your life to pan out and I’m just out here getting and doing what I want, not for anyone else. I’m putting myself first,” explained Sorisha. “Showmax would like to give a warm welcome to new and returning cast members. We look forward to getting another front-row seat into the lives of the most loved Durban queens on screen,” commented Yolisa Phahle, MultiChoice Group CEO for Connected Video. Start streaming The Real Housewives of Durban season three first and only on Showmax from 1 February 2023, with new episodes landing every Friday thereafter. READ NEXT: Tribalism rears its ugly head on ‘Real Housewives of Durban’