Orlando Pirates finally bounced back to winning ways through a determined display in the last moments of the game to register a 3-1 victory over Golden Arrows at the Orlando Stadium on Saturday. ALSO READ: Monare remains positive despite Pirates contract coming to an end It all seemed like the game would end in a draw, but Pirates managed to score two late goals to mark their first victory of the year. It was a shaky start for the Buccaneers in the first minute of the game, with an error from the back almost resulting in Knox Mutizwa putting Arrows in the lead, but Sipho Chaine was able to prevent the striker from scoring. That incident woke up Pirates, and they started to show that they were playing at home. Kermit Erasmus had a number of opportunities starting in the 11th minute, but his header went wide, before coming one on one with Abafana Be’Sthende goalkeeper Sifiso Mbunjana on the left side, but the shot-stopper managed to keep the danger away. That was until Bucs came through with Monnapule Saleng after he met up with Bandile Shandu’s cross, and the forward made no mistake as he got the ball into the back of the net in the 28th minute.  Arrows made some nice movement in the middle of the park trying to find a breakthrough, but they were not dangerous enough to get the equaliser. Towards half-time, there was a bit of a scare when Erasmus collided with Ntsikelelo Nxadi while fighting for the ball in the air, but the players seemed okay after some time, with the game going to the break with Pirates in the lead.  Arrows looked energized in the second half with some early pressure on the Sea Robbers. In the 50th minute, Mutizwa found himself with a golden chance to level matters, but his shot went wide from inside the box. When it seemed like nothing was happening, substitute Ndwande came off the bench to level matters for the visitors in the 68thminute. But, Pirates’ spirited performance helped them to get a second goal through substitute Terrence Dzvukamanja in injury time, before Vincent Pule scored the third for Bucs to seal all three points.