Mitsubishi’s long overdue replacement for the full-size Pajero has surprisingly re-entered the spotlight after being wholly discontinued two years ago. Initially forecasted to debute in 2021 or 2022 using the underpinnings of the current generation Nissan Patrol, the automaker officially denounced all rumours last year after supposed plans to continue with production in South Africa failed to materialise. Instead, it introduced a special Legend 100 edition to celebrate the end of production after its former Chief Operating Officer in Australia remarked in 2019 that only a solid business case would keep it from being axed entirely. “It’s always got to be based on a business case. Can we come up with a business case in the end to justify it,” John Signoriello was quoted by carsguide.com.au as saying at the time. ALSO READ: It is over: Mitsubishi Pajero ending for good next year The latest surprise development surrounding the Pajero resides with its indirect successor, the Pajero Sport, which the three diamonds alluded to could be pushed-up a notch when the next generation arrives at some stage. According to CarsGuide, Vice-President and Head of Vehicle Engineering, Hiroshi Masuoka, admitted that while no plans are afoot to revive the full-size Pajero at any stage, a possibility exist of “stretching” the Pajero Sport and allowing it “to grow”. “The sad news is that we don’t have Pajero for now, but we have Pajero Sport. Pajero Sport has the potential to be stretched, to grow more. Performance, comfort, the bodywork, and the powertrain itself. We believe the Pajero Sport has that potential,” the publication quoted Masuoka, who won the Dakar Rally twice for Mitsubishi in a Pajero in 2002 and 2003, as saying. While details are unknown at present as to how the Pajero Sport would fulfil the role of the “proper” Pajero, a hint could soon be revealed via the next generation Triton that provides the base for Mitsubishi’s rival for the Toyota Fortuner, Ford Everest and Isuzu MU-X. As evidenced by spy images published last year, the Triton, which itself will provide the foundation for the next iteration of the Nissan Navara, will make its world debut later this year possibly with an array of electrified powertrains that would make for a viable option in the Pajero line-up. For the time being though, speculation is only expected to mount until an official announcement emerges, meaning the current Pajero Sport prevails as Mitsubishi’s flagship SUV.