It looks like Collins Mbesuma’s goals record in the DStv Premiership is not under threat this season with no striker making a dash for the top goalscorer award so far.  ALSO READ: Under fire AmaZulu coach Folz not worried about sack Mbesuma’s record was under threat last season with Mamelodi Sundowns’ Peter Shalulile falling two goals short of equaling it.  The record stands at 25 league goals and was set by the Zambian striker so many years ago – in the 2004/2005 season.  With Shalulile suffering an injury, followed by rumours of being unsettled at Masandawana, the Namibian has not been firing as much as he was last term.  As it is now, the race for the top goal scorer is wide open with Kaizer Chiefs’ new man Caleb Bimenyimana  tied with Shalulile and Bradley Grobler of SuperSport United on seven strikes. And while some strikers like Gabadinho Mhango of AmaZulu had a promising start, the goals have dried up.  It is now almost clear that none will get above 20 goals this season. In fact if anyone gets to 16, it would be a big feat.ALSO READ: Riveiro banking on new striker coach to help misfiring Pirates We take a short look at four players who are possible contenders for the Lesley Manyathela Golden Boot Award at the end of the season:  1. Caleb Bimenyimana of Kaizer Chiefs The lanky Burundian lad has shown signs of becoming a good find for Arthur Zwane’s side with a contribution of seven goals so far this season.  He has however proven to be the kind of striker who buries the difficult chances while missing the easier ones.  Bimenyimana has missed some one-on-one chances like in last weekend’s game where he missed a couple.  2. Peter Shalulile of Mamelodi Sundowns Now that he is back and found that no one really opened the gap while he was out in the latter parts of the first round, Shalulile is back and stepped up.  He scored to level with Bimenyimana and Grobler in Sundowns’ 2-1 win over Chippa United on Tuesday. Fit and hungry again, Shalulile is likely to win this race again and take home his third award for most goals. He first won it with Highlands Park.  3. Cassius Mailula of Mamelodi Sundowns The youngster took charge of scoring goals at Sundowns when Shalulile was unavailable and became an integral part to their journey.  Mailula fits perfectly into coach Rulani Mokwena’s system and gets into spaces which gets him in good scoring positions.  He currently has five strikes but is likely to increase that and get into double digits should he stay injury free.  4. Bradly Grobler of SuperSport United He boasts the most experience and is close to getting into the 100 PSL goals bracket where the likes of Mabhuti Khenyeza and Siyabonga Nomvete are.  Grobler has always had injury problems but he has managed to avert them so far this season.  If he can keep fit and injury free, he stands a good chance of getting his second top goal scorer gong.