Bulls playmakers Chris Smith and Johan Goosen will both start the team’s United Rugby Championship match against Scarlets in Llanelli in Wales on Friday night, with the former at flyhalf and the latter at fullback. Exciting wing Stravino Jacobs and promising hooker Jan-Hendrik Wessels are also both back in the match-23. After missing out in the Champions Cup last week, lock Ruan Nortje is also back to lead the side from the second row. ALSO READ: ‘Bulls players are hurting but confidence still there ahead of Scarlets clash’ With so much rugby being played at the moment the Bulls coaching team have, however, decided to give two key backline players, Springboks Kurt-Lee Arendse and Canan Moodie some time off. This will be the second time the two sides meet and the Welsh side are looking to bounce back from back-to-back league defeats while the visiting Bulls will be looking to make it two wins from two in the competition. Chris Rossouw, the Bulls’ backline coach, said the combination of Smith and Goosen will allow the side to exploit the double-kicking options. He also highlighted the importance of confidence going into the fixture. “Confidence will be important but obviously execution and being clinical on the night will be more important,” said Rossouw, who added, “Scarlets are known as a team that attacks a lot. What they have done over the last two months is to find a balance between their attacking and kicking game, and how we manage that will be crucial for us and we’ll have to make sure we do not get pinned in our own half.” ALSO READ: World Rugby U20 Champs head to SA for next two years The match kicks off at 9.35pm Friday. Bulls: Johan Goosen, David Kriel, Lionel Mapoe, Harold Vorster, Stravino Jacobs, Chris Smith, Zak Burger, Elrigh Louw, Cyle Brink, Marco van Staden, Ruan Nortje (capt), Ruan Vermaak, Mornay Smith, Johan Grobbelaar, Gerhard Steenekamp. Bench: Jan-Hendrick Wessels, Simphiwe Matanzima, Francois Klopper, Janko Swanepoel, Nizaam Carr, Embrose Papier, Cornal Hendricks, Wandisile Simelane