Kaizer Chiefs coach Arthur Zwane has admitted that playing more youngsters in his team may backfire badly sometimes.  ALSO READ: ‘No more Mr Nice Guy’, says gatvol Sundowns coach Mokwena But that does not mean he will shy away from putting his faith in them as he looks more into the future than in the present.  And while some can find fault with this, it is easy to understand. Chiefs have to build for next season because Mamelodi Sundowns have run away with the league title yet again.  And while there is still the Nedbank Cup for Chiefs to fight for, it is a cup competition where sometimes luck more than anything else is needed to win.  “Football is a game of opportunities,” said Zwane when asked about the lack of experience in his team in recent games on Thursday morning in Naturena.  “We have our senior players who are now available for this game [against Sundowns on Saturday]. They have not been unavailable due to injuries and other unforeseen situations.  “We then had to give the young guys a chance to show us what they have. Some have grabbed the opportunity… “And we have to continue where we left off with them because at the end of the day it is about the future of this club,” says Zwane.  He says the time is now for the team to start giving the young players a chance so they learn from mistakes and become better for the future. “If we don’t give these boys an opportunity to play (now), when are we going to give them?  “So, some of them have done well so far and because we are thinking about the future, we are looking at what we can do in the future.  “We are obviously in the rebuilding phase where we have to build a way of playing. And as much as the results have fluctuated, I have seen a lot of positives come out of what we have been doing. “At some point you pay the price when you play with youngsters. You pay the price in terms of the mistakes that they will commit.  “But the game is a teacher and some of them are improving and the more they play, the more they gain experience.”ALSO READ: ‘We know how to hurt Sundowns,’ says Chiefs’ Mshini Ngcobo Zwane’s youngsters are set for a heavy test when they meet Sundowns in a league game on Saturday night at FNB Stadium.  “We all know it is a big game and it will be tough playing against a team who have been doing well.  “They are the current champions and top of the log. Our preparations are as usual and so far so good. The boys are looking forward to the game.  “It is very key on our side to run our own race. Yes, we will profile Sundowns because we are playing them.  “But we do not have to put ourselves under pressure by worrying more about Sundowns instead of being worried about ourselves and how we can rectify the mistakes that have let us down in the past.  “The focus so far has been on that and the guys have been doing well when it comes to that,” added Zwane.