Already four years old after debuting in current fourth generation guise at the Tokyo Motor Show, Honda has showcased the updated Jazz markets across Europe will be receiving from later this year. A nameplate dropped in favour of the Fit moniker in South Africa two years ago, the Jazz’s exterior revisions comprise restyled front and rear bumper, dark headlight clusters on Advance and Elegance models, new alloy wheels for the former and a new grille. Adding to these, the crossover-inspired Crosstar receives model specific alloy wheels, a new honeycomb pattern for the upper grille, satin silver front and rear skidplates and a new colour called Fjord Mist Blue. New to the entire line-up though is the Advance Sport, which differs from the model on which it is based by virtue of sportier bumpers, gloss black mirror caps, lattice work on the grille, unique 16-inch alloy wheels and a bespoke colour option dubbed Urban Grey. Inside, the steering wheel from the retro all-electric Honda e remains, along with the digital instrument cluster, freestanding touchscreen infotainment system and trademark flip-up Magic Rear Seats. In fact, the only updates are improved materials on the dashboard, doors and centre console, new colours and better seat upholstery on the Crosstar. The Advance Sport, meanwhile, receives faux black suede and grey leather seats, as well as yellow stitching on the steering wheel, doors and front armrest. ALSO READ: New Honda Fit plays right tune as Jazz replacement New on the safety side is Traffic Jam Assist and no less than ten airbags across the entire range regardless of trim level. Up front, the standard paring of the 1.5-litre petrol engine and electric motor have been revised with an uptake of seven kilowatts for the former, ten kilowatts for the latter and eight more kilowatts for the generator. Curiously, the combined system’s power output wasn’t disclosed. As a reminder, the setup in the pre-facelift Jazz/Fit delivered a total of 80 kW. A CVT remains the sole transmission option. For its part, the Advance Sport has subtly tweaked too with revised throttle mapping for improved response, stiffer front and rear springs and sportier dampers all around. Still to be priced for Europe, Honda South Africa is still to confirm whether the mentioned changes will be applied to the domestic market Fit, whose engine line-up consists not only of the hybrid e:HEV, but also a conventional 1.5-litre petrol that develops 89kW/145Nm. If approved, expect sales to commence around the second quarter of this year with a likely price increase over the current model’s R347 500 starting sticker.