After the sudden passing of musician Mandla ‘Mampintsha’ Maphumulo (40) over three weeks ago, his family has suffered another loss, that of his mother Zamanguni Gumede.  It was reported on Monday morning, last week, that Gumede’s illness had worsened after her son’s death.   Gumede passed away aged 64 on Sunday evening, at the Wentworth Hospital in KwaZulu-Natal after suffering a short illness.  Daily Sun reported that Mampintsha’s sister, Pinki Gumede, had visited their mother hours before her death and told the publication that her mom seemed “fine”.  “She was even telling us jokes and we were all laughing. So, when I left her, she was in high spirits and I really thought she was getting better,” she said.  She was informed to visit her mom in the hospital hours later including requesting to see her grandson Sponge, Pinki added in her converation with Daily Sun.  Sponge is the son of the late Mampintsha and his wife, Bongekile Simelane popularly known as Babes Wodumo. Pinki was able to say her goodbyes, as she  was informed of Zamanguni Gumede’s death at around 10pm on Sunday.  Pinki described her mother’s health as a concern before Mampintsha’s passing and after he died, her condition worsened.  “I am definitely not coping, it’s a double sword for me. I lost two important people within a space of three weeks.” Sad to hear that Mampintsha's mother, Zamanguni Gumede, passed away so soon after her son's passing ????????️Our thoughts and prayers to Babes Wodumo and the rest of the family ???? pic.twitter.com/2t0dKA6CNi— TK_Nala ???? (@NalaThokozane) January 16, 2023 I'm glad Babes Wodumo and Mampintsha's mom had made peace before she passed on. Those who blame Babes for the death are fools to the core. How is Babes responsible for anything? The mother was sick and got more sicker when Mampintsha died. Leave Babes alone… She's also hurting— Tšhegofatšo ???????????? (@MaabuleM) January 16, 2023 Bathi Mampintsha’s mom passed away ????… I don’t ever wanna know the pain of losing a child …. Not everyone can come out of that ???? #mampintsha— Nothando Malinga (@knowthando) January 16, 2023 Mampintsha's mom dying few weeks after his son's funeral just shows how unbearable the pain of losing your child must be.— Lisakhanya . ????❤️ (@Olona15182087) January 16, 2023 The last time Gumede was seen in public was during her son’s funeral. The musician passed away after suffering a minor stroke a week prior on Christmas Eve.  His funeral was held at the Inkosi Albert Luthuli International Convention Centre in Durban, on 30 December, and was attended by family, friends and fans.  The KwaZulu-Natal government announced it had decided it would be assisting with the burial of Mampintsha. Fans watching the service noted that Gumede seemed to have a pattern of arriving late to important events, recalling her late arrival at his wedding and his memorial service. READ NEXT: WATCH: ‘Mampintsha’s mother is always late’ – fans react to matriarch’s pattern Compiled by Sandisiwe Mbhele, additional reporting by Kaunda Selisho