The South African Government has slammed Israel’s National Security Minister Itamar Ben-Gvir’s visit to the Temple Mount. Gvir entered the Al-Aqsa Mosque compound in occupied East Jerusalem in a move Palestinians called a “deliberate provocation”. Gvir ignored warnings from Israeli politicians that his appearance at the holy site would inflame tensions. The visit has drawn widespread condemnation including the International Relation Department (Dirco). “The action by Minister Gvir is seen as a signal that the newly elected Israeli government led by Prime Minister Netanyahu is perhaps another step towards changing the fragile status quo with regard to the holy sites in Jerusalem.” “Minister Gvir’s actions follow from the statement by Prime Minister Netanyahu that his government plans to ‘advance and develop settlements in all parts of the land of Israel – in the Galilee, Negev, Golan Heights and Judea and Samaria’. This statement has been interpreted as signalling the end of pursuing a two-state solution by the government of Israel,” Dirco said. ALSO READ: SA calls for lasting peace between Palestine and Israel Dirco said the visit will heighten tension in the region. “Minister Gvir’s incursion to Al Aqsa, the demolition of Palestinian homes and resources, and the killing of young Palestinians all serve to heighten tensions in the region, making meaningful dialogue towards the end of the occupation very difficult.” “South Africa remains committed to an end to the occupation of Palestine and is hopeful that the United Nations Security Council (UNSC) at its meeting on this matter, will condemn these actions and call for concrete action concerning ending the apartheid system in Israel and Palestine,” Dirco added. The Government of the Republic of South Africa expresses concern over the visit to the Temple Mount by Israel’s National Security Minister.Press Statement ➡️ https://t.co/WX4HBOAI2B. pic.twitter.com/VIyyS4z827— DIRCO South Africa (@DIRCO_ZA) January 5, 2023 The Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) has also condemned Gvir’s visit to he Al-Aqsa Mosque compound. “A member of the executive in the apartheid Israel regime, at least in the absence of consciousness should not act recklessly sparking international outcry and undue attention, pursuing a dangerous path in the midst of relative calm in the world and Middle East.” The red berets said Gvir “did not only breach international law but was brazenly in breach of his religious injunction and chief priesthood, the Jewish rabbinate”. “The EFF calls on the South African government to act practically against the racist state of Israel. In this regard and to summon the ambassador of apartheid Israel regime as a form of demonstration of outrage and solidarity of the people of South Africa to the plight of people in Palestine,” the EFF said. EFF Statement On The Reckless Visit To The East Jerusalem Holy Site By Israel Minister pic.twitter.com/7wNsXvV5ai— Economic Freedom Fighters (@EFFSouthAfrica) January 5, 2023 ALSO READ: Biden calls Netanyahu ‘friend,’ vows to press ‘two state solution’