Terrence Dzvukamanja has left Orlando Pirates management in two minds about releasing him following his recent performances.  ALSO READ: We anticipated a tough clash against Gallants, says Pirates’ Sibisi Pirates were set to let the Zimbabwean leave in the current transfer window with SuperSport United rumoured to be his next home.  Dzvukamanja has however given some telling performances for the team and re-installed himself in the match day squad.  He was among the starters in Pirates’ 2-0 win over Marumo Gallants at the weekend and assisted in the first goal scored by Monnapule Saleng.  A source, who had earlier in the season told Phakaaathi that Dzvukamanja was among those who would be loaned out is now out of that list.  “It is not only his performances on match days, but he is also working hard in training and showing the coaches that he is still capable of getting the job done.  “The management are now unsure what to do with him,” said the source on Monday.  “But I will not be surprised if he is given an extension to his contract and not released as previously planned.”  “The arrival of the strikers coach has also helped them as you can see even Eva Nga is now returning to the team.  “That guy has brought back confidence in the strikers in the team and now the competition is even hotter.  “Anyone who gets to play knows they have to make a difference because outside there are other capable players waiting for their chance,” added the source.  Bienvenu Eva Nga was also one of the players rumoured to be on their way out at the Buccaneers.  In fact Phakaaathi reported last week that Pirates were looking for a team to loan him to in the current window.  ALSO READ: Chiefs’ Maart opens up about Puskas snub He was however also in the matchday squad for Saturday’s game and made an appearance as a substitute in the latter stages of the match.  Pirates are already overloaded up front and recently loaned Kwame Peprah to Maritzburg United.  They already had an admirable striking department and the recent addition of Cameroonian Souaibou Marou added to the arsenal.  This is why Pirates were expected to shed a few more strikers but it seems coach Jose Riveiro would like to give all of them a chance first.