Tech giant ASUS, unveiled two new commercial solutions, the ExpertBook B9 OLED for elite business executives; and the BR1102 series for the education sector at the recent Consumer Electronics Show (CES) in Las Vegas. ASUS said the new devices enable non-stop productivity and hybrid learning, delivering an incredible future in business and education. ASUS Computer International president Benjamin Yeh said the company is committed to driving progress toward a more sustainable future. With the new ExpertBook B9 OLED and BR1102, business executives and students alike benefit from efficient energy usage that reduces their carbon footprint. Beyond the product design, ASUS is also building these products sustainably, with supply, manufacturing, and materials practices that move us closer to our sustainability goals in 2023 and beyond. The chassis of the new ExpertBook B9 is made of a magnesium-lithium alloy. Asus claims it is more lightweight than many 13-inch laptops. It features a 14-inch OLED panel with a 2.880 x 1.800 resolution is integrated into this chassis The ExpertBook B9 OLED is equipped with the latest 13th Generation Intel Core™ vPro processor and up to 64 GB of memory, plus a smart-cooling system to increase performance by 36%. ASUS said the improved webcam, speaker and microphone array enable high-quality video calls; and the OLED display with 16:10 aspect ratio and 90% screen-to-body ratio provides vivid color, low blue-light emissions and an immersive visual experience. “It’s also loaded with little extras to boost every user experiences, including a touchpad that’s 26.8% bigger than before — enhancing both navigation and control.” “The ExpertBook B9 OLED was designed with sustainability at the forefront. The manufacturing process not only creates increased rigidity, but also reduces material waste by 29% and production time by up to 75% to maximise energy efficiency and further reduce environmental impact,” ASUS said. The ASUS BR1102 is rugged and reliable and boasts military-grade durability, a TÜV-certified dynamic display with anti-glare and wide-view, and a compact, modular design that enables young K-12 learners to study, stream and play continuously. Available in both traditional clamshell and 360° convertible forms, the 11.6″ ASUS BR1102 Series laptops act as a reliable companion for the modern K-12 students. “Its compact 11.6-inch rugged design fits in any backpack and can withstand drops, bumps and everyday wear and tear. It features a spill-resistant keyboard, tamper- and scratch-resistant exterior, reinforced components, a wraparound rubber bumper and an easy grip,” ASUS said. The BR11102 is powered by a 12th Generation Intel Core processor and Windows 11 Education, up to 10 hours of battery life, high-speed connectivity, noise-reducing camera, webcam shield, and 13 MP world-facing camera. ASUS South Africa is yet to announce the availability and pricing for the two laptops. ALSO READ: WATCH: Apple unveils new Mac mini, MacBook Pro with M2 Pro and M2 Max chips