The matric class of 2022’s anxious wait to get their final results is all but over. Our hearts go out to the next generation of school leavers.  We can only imagine how stressed and overwhelmed they have felt since writing their last exam late last year. Hopefully, they are rewarded for the hard work put in over the years, while for those that didn’t quite get the desired marks, there are many options so they must not lose hope.  Rewrites, regrades and short courses are just some of the options available if one falls short.  ALSO READ: Get your IEB matric results right here at midnight The Independent Examinations Board candidates receive their results today, while the National Senior Certificate pupils will find out how they did on Friday – a day after Basic Education Minister Angie Motshekga reveals how public schools fared in another tough year for matriculants, having to initially deal with the Covid restrictions and being hampered by load shedding.  The class of 2022 has had it tough. Their final three years of high school were completely wrapped up in the pandemic.  While concerned about some cases of cheating and certain problematic questions in a few of the papers that were eventually excluded, education quality assurance body Umalusi have given it the all clear to release the results this week.  Also Read: LISTEN: Failed matric? ‘It’s not the end of the road’ – educational psychologist Not completing or failing Grade 12 is not the end of the world. Educational psychologist Landi Blok van Cronesteyn said: “To the parents, I would say be there for your child and to support them, whatever the results are. If they are not great as they were hoping just keep a level head and plan a different path and seek help from a psychologist if need be. It is not the end of the road and when one door closes, another one opens and it might be an even better future or better path.”  To the matric class of 2022, well done. While we live in uncertain times, the world is your oyster.