Bongo Flava songstress Nandy on Thursday, January 19 officially unveiled the first signee  on her record label 'The African Princess'. The first artiste whose unveiling was eagerly awaited is Yammi whose video recently went viral on tiktok. The unveiling was followed by the release of the singer's three track LP featuring songs such as 'Namchukia', 'Tunapendezan' and 'Hanipendi'. Yammi expressed her gratitude to all those who made her realise the dream of becoming an artiste. "This is a dream of a young girl who became princes, I leave this message to my sister, friend, and heroine @officialnandy  not only by envisioning my talent but also for the vision she has to add value to Tanzanian music, especially female artists. I am a rough ruby and without being processed  I would have remained to be a stone, today I am the first artist to be signed by the African Princess label," she wrote on he Instagram page.The singer launched her own record label dubbed The African Princess, first one by a female artiste in Tanzania.The songstress launched the label on January 16, 2023, in an event that was graced by the who is who in the Tanzanian entertainment industry, and a few members of her team.According to her, the label will mainly target nurturing female musicians from across Africa.In an Instagram post, Nandy expressed her excitement for achieving the milestone of owning a record label, and according to her, it is a dream come true, calling on her fans to support her baby steps. “It’s my hope that the media, blogs and our fans will give us all the support we need so that we help aspiring female artistes to attain their dreams. That’s why this is not just a Tanzanian label but an African one. Expect to see talent from different countries. That’s why it’s called the African Princess Label!” writes Nandy.The singer announced her plans to launch the label last year, but was met with challenges that hindered her from doing so earlier. The mother of one at the time pointed out that managing artistes is not a walk in the park, especially for women.Nandy now joins a growing list of musicians who own record labels in East Africa. Among them are Diamond Platnumz,Harmonize, Rayvanny, Nahreel, Alikiba, Sauti Sol, King Kaka and Khaligraph Jones.