Although it only established the EQ brand seven years ago, a recent report from Germany has alleged that Mercedes-Benz could do without the dedicated all-electric marque as soon as next year. Introduced at the Geneva Motor Show in 2016, the division’s line-up currently consists of nine models, EQA, EQB, EQC, EQE and EQE SUV, EQS and EQS SUV, EQT and EQV with the production version of the EQG due out this year. Despite only debuting the EQC in 2019, the rapid rollout of electrified models without the EQ designation has allegedly been cited as the main reason for the three-pointed star considering the division’s future. This is according to business publication, Handelsblatt, who further claims that the EQ’s axing could commence from the end of next year. Reportedly, this will alleviate confusion that has been cropping-up amongst buyers ever since it’s establishing. ALSO READ: Kyalami FoM 2022: Mercedes-Benz EQ range fully detailed In addition, it is believed that Mercedes-Benz’s eventual transitioning to an all-electric marque before 2030 will leave little reason for the EQ brand’s retention in the long-run. “With the goal of our parent brand Mercedes-Benz becoming fully electric by the end of the decade, we will adapt the positioning of the vehicles and thus also the use of the brand in line with the times, but it is too early for details on this at the moment,” an unnamed Mercedes-Benz spokesperson was quoted by Reuters as saying on the matter. The surprising announcement comes on the back of the EQ brand’s delayed South African launch last year, after the planned unveiling in 2020 and 2021 had to be delayed as a result of the pandemic. Earlier this month, Mercedes-Benz South Africa announced pricing details of the EQE as well as availability of the EQE SUV and EQS SUV from later this year. At present, the line-up of EQ models, unveiled at the Kyalami Festival of Motoring in August last year, consists of the EQA, EQB, EQC and EQS with no plans at present for the introduction of the EQT, EQV and eventual EQG.