LG Electronics (LG) has unveiled its 2023 TV line-ups, at the 2023 Consumer Electronics Show (CES) in Las Vegas. LG said to realise more immersive viewing experiences, its self-lit technology has enabled the company to create “unprecedented” TV form factors, including the market-firsts such as the rollable LG SIGNATURE OLED R, and the bendable LG OLED Flex. Spearheading LG’s 2023 OLED line-up are the latest Z3, G3 and C3 OLED evo series TVs. These upgraded, new models provide higher brightness and colour accuracy as well as amazing clarity and detail thanks to the precision and performance of LG OLED evo technology and the new α9 AI Processor Gen6. LG said the latest Alpha series processor utilises the most sophisticated AI-assisted Deep Learning tech to ensure outstanding picture and sound quality. “AI Picture Pro now offers improved upscaling for better clarity, and enhanced dynamic tone mapping, which helps reveal the depth and detail in every frame. AI Picture Pro also integrates a picture processing technology that detects and refines important objects, such as people’s faces, to give them a more lifelike HDR quality.” LG’s 2023 G3 OLED evo models also boast an aesthetic upgrade via the introduction of the ultra-seamless One Wall Design leaving no visible gap when wall mounted. LG OLED also introduced a refreshed, more personalised user experience in 2023. Featuring the latest version of webOS, this year’s models present All New Home, a redesigned user interface (UI) that offers a wealth of personalisation options and more convenience than ever. “The new ‘Quick Cards’ offer users easy access to the content and services they use the most – all grouped into logical categories such as Home Office, Gaming, Music and Sports,” the company said. Furthering the personalised user experience on LG OLED TV is AI Concierge, which provides each user with a curated list of content choices based on their past usage and search inquiries and provides a selection of trending content for them to browse. LG said its 2023 OLED models support a wide range of features compliant to HDMI 2.1. They are also the first TV sets to be certified by the HDMI organisation for the recently announced Quick Media Switching VRR (QMS-VRR). QMS-VRR can eliminate the momentary ‘black screen’ that sometimes occurs when switching between content played from different source devices connected via the TV’s HDMI 2.1a compliant ports. LG’s self-lit OLED TVs boast a 0.1 millisecond response time, low input lag, up to four HDMI2.1 compliant ports. They are also equipped with the Game Optimizer, allowing users to quickly select and switch between gaming-specific features, such as game-genre display presets. Settings for G-SYNC Compatible, FreeSync Premium and variable refresh rate (VRR) are easily accessible from the Game Optimizer as well. ALSO READ: OPPO showcases new tech and innovation at INNO Day 2022 Article compiled by Faizel Patel.