From Wednesday, 1 February, onwards – prolific South African sports broadcaster Robert Marawa will start a new journey on a new platform after signing a lucrative deal with Primedia.  He took to his Twitter account earlier this week to announce that he would not only be joining 947, his highly acclaimed sports show Marawa Sports Worldwide would also ”embark on a historic journey” on three other unique platforms in the form of Vuma FM, RISE FM and Sowetan Live.  A new chapter. A new challenge. An honour to join a beast of a radio station in @947 From Wednesday #MSW will embark on a historic journey on four unique platforms… @947 @VumaFM @RISEfm943 & @SowetanLIVE Let's do Radio!!! ???????????????????? pic.twitter.com/bYdccTGsRI— robertmarawa (@robertmarawa) January 30, 2023 Marawa Sports Worldwide got its start as a weekly simulcast sports radio show presented by Robert Marawa and the show aired on Radio 2000 and Metro FM. Marawa then ran into some issues with his employers at Metro FM in 2021 and he alleged that he was informed of his dismissal in a text message that told him not to bother coming back for work the next day.  According to a report by News24, the 2021 incident was the second time he had been fired from the station after yet another dispute in 2017.  Two years later, he started Marawa TV in 2019 as a way of continuing his work without having to answer to an employer.  Waking up to Rob Marawa's next move had me SCR3AMING!!!!Well done, youngin'. You keep showing us what it is to live your destiny y your way. So proud of you, @robertmarawa ???????? ???????? ???????? ????????— BrownSugar (@UrsulaChikane) January 31, 2023 By late 2021, Arena Holdings had snapped Marawa up, bringing the Marawa Sports Worldwide show to Vuma FM, RISE FMand Sowetan Live. During that partnership, the show was streamed live daily on the aforementioned platforms.  YOU MIGHT ALSO LIKE: Safa ‘interfering’ in Marawa’s exit is ‘ill informed’, says SABC Arena Holdings also touted the partnership with giving him “access to some of the top award-winning sports journalists in the country including soccer, cricket and rugby writers”. A warm welcome to @robertmarawa from @Anele, @FrankieFire & @CindyPoluta – welcome to 947. ???? Watch the live stream on our Facebook page. #MSWOn947 #RobertMarawaOn947 #AneleAndTheClubOn947 pic.twitter.com/FdUKRUFP01— 947 Music.Life (@947) January 31, 2023 Earlier this week, Primedia Broadcasting announced that its CEO Lindile Xoko signed an exclusive deal with the legendary sports commentator.  His show will air on the station every weeknight between 6pm and 7pm.  “My move to Primedia is both historic and exciting in creating a wider reach for all MSW fans, especially for Gauteng residents, who have been complaining about being left out,” Marawa said in a statement issued by the broadcaster. “I’m grateful to both Arena and Primedia for seeing things in a futuristic manner by creating what will now be four unique platforms thus creating radio history with this unparalleled simulcast offering. With this move, we are raising the game for sports enthusiasts in SA and beyond. For me professionally, this is the best moment in my radio career.” Congrats @robertmarawa! Can't wait to hear you in action when next I am in #Mzansi!  You are right @ThebeIkalafeng, Rob is the right man for the job!???????????????????????????????????????? pic.twitter.com/xHLELZnyDH— Felicia Mabuza-Suttle (@Feliciamabuza) January 30, 2023 According to Primedia, some of the topics MSW delves into includes discussions on sports development and administration, with Marawa reflecting candidly on the state of play of gender and racial transformation.  “MSW also tackles real-life stories of how sport helps individuals and communities out of poverty.”  READ NEXT: Robert Marawa owes R1 million balloon payment for a Mercedes Benz – report Compiled by Kaunda Selisho