Officially one of the oldest models in its global line-up, the venerable Mazda2 has benefitted from a handful of updates in Japan ahead of its market release later this year. Unveiled back in 2014, Hiroshima’s rival for the Volkswagen Polo last underwent a mid-life update in 2019, which the saw the Demio nameplate being phased-out in favour of the global 2 moniker in a move similar to the Axela becoming the 3 and the 6 the Atenza. Although reported three years ago as being replaced by an all-new model by 2022, the subsequent successor came by the way of the XP210 Toyota Yaris resplendent with the Mazda insignia as part of a joint venture. ALSO READ: Facelift Mazda2 proves it can still tango In other markets besides Japan, namely South Africa and Australia, the latter having been a key market for the 2 for years, the current third generation, known internally as the DJ, has soldiered on with the latest revisions being subtle but easy to spot. Said to represent the latest interpretation of the Kodo design language, the 2’s exterior receives new front and rear bumpers, two grille designs; one with a conventional honeycomb pattern and the other with a colour-coded sealed lower insert, newly designed alloy wheels and three dual-tone roof colours. In addition to two new colours, Aero Grey Metallic and Airstream Blue Metallic, a new limited edition model, the Sunlit Citrus, has been added to range with mainly different levels of specification. Like the rest of the 2 range though, the Sunlit Citrus’ interior’ hasn’t been as extensively reworked as the exterior, though it does come as standard with heated and electric front seats, Lane Keep Assist, a leather-wrapped steering wheel and gear lever, Autonomous Emergency Braking and Radar-based Cruise Control. New to the interior though is a biodegradable instrument panel made out of plant-based materials Mazda claims “achieves a high-quality feel that cannot be achieved with conventional plastic”. In Japan, the Mazda2 range has been streamlined from eight to five models, BD, XD BD, Sport, XD Sport+ and the Sunlit Citrus with a choice of two engine being offered; the 1.5 SkyActiv-G petrol in two states of tune; 81kW/141Nm or 85kW/148Nm, and in XD models, the 1.5 SkyActiv-D turbodiesel that punches out 77kW/220Nm. Bar the Sport and XD Sport+, which are optionally equipped with a six-speed manual gearbox, all of the other grades are fitted with a six-speed automatic as standard. Four-wheel-drive can, however, be specified as an option across the range. Priced from ¥1 529 000 (R202 722) to ¥2 541 000 (R336 898) in Japan, the updated Mazda2 range will officially become available Down Under in June with delivers set to start the following month. Despite Mazda South Africa remaining mum on the local market availability, projections point to a likely third quarter debut with power to set to come from the latter petrol engine only hooked to either the manual or automatic ‘box. A likely price change is also anticipated, meaning a premium over the current line-up that kicks-off at R302 300 for the entry-level Active and rises to R407 400 for the flagship Hazumi automatic.