Kaizer Chiefs will have a secret weapon when they meet Royal AM for a DStv Premiership fixture at Peter Mokaba Stadium on Sunday. ALSO READ: Chiefs’ Maart opens up about Puskas snub Their new striker Christian Saile Basomboli is available for selection for the match after he received his work permit.  Chiefs coach Arthur Zwane had spoken highly of the striker but had been unsure on Thursday if we would be able to use him for the game.  Zwane said the Congolese had shown good signs in training that he could be the solution they need to end their goal scoring troubles.  Chiefs have not scored in their last three games and lost all and are looking for their first win of the new year against Royal AM.  Saile arrived at Chiefs a week ago from Nchanga Rangers in Zambia, where he scored 19 goals last season.  He had already scored seven times in the Super League this season before Chiefs came knocking for his services.  “He is a scoring machine, he has been scoring goals for his previous clubs and we just want him to continue where he left off. “And yes, I think he is going to fit in our way of play,” said the Chiefs mentor of his new striker.The commitment is very key Zwane then explained what attracted them when he had come on trial during the Fifa World Cup break in November last year. “You must remember that he is from Congo and they speak French there. So, the things that you look at first are whether there are language barrier issues or not. “If that’s the case, we then look at whether we are going to have someone who can translate going forward or is he going to adapt quickly. Those are some of the things we look at. “There were many other aspects for us to bring him closer so that when we make the decision to bring him over we are sure that we took the right decision.” ALSO READ: Sundowns cruise past Sekhukhune enroute to 13th league title Zwane sounded convinced that Basomboli will add value to his Chiefs team going forward. “So far, so good. He is a jolly fellow, he looks so disciplined but you know players like these ones are very committed to their game.  “You see the passion in them, they have a lot of love for the game which is very key,” explained the Chiefs mentor.