City Power has warned that is has no mini-substations because of theft and load-shedding. The utility said hundreds of households supplied by City Power will be powerless for a few days because the electricity provider has run out of mini-substations to replace those which are vandalised or damaged due to higher stages of load shedding. Spokesperson Isaac Mangena said City Power is unable to keep up with the high demand for mini-substations “We have been losing an average of two mini-substations per day due to theft and vandalism across our Service Delivery Centers, with the hardest hit being Roodepoort.  The impact of load shedding is high on our infrastructure, with mini-substations and transformers blowing up, or being stolen.” On average, one mini-substation supplies 100 households depending on the size, which will explain the number of calls we may get every time a single mini-substation is vandalised or blows up.  Since the recent higher stages of load shedding, City Power has been losing mini-substations faster than we can replenish them,” he said. The @CityofJoburgZA's infrastructure is under attack.We have been losing an average of two minisubs per day to theft & vandalism with the hardest hit being Roodepoort. Over the last year, City Power replaced in excess of 390 minisubstations, at a cost of R200m. https://t.co/5xM1VtB1qy— Executive Mayor Mpho Phalatse (@mphophalatse1) January 19, 2023 By Wednesday this week, City Power needed at least 14 mini substation boxes to deal with several outages in different areas including Lufhereng, Roodepoort CBD, JG Strydom, Witpoortjie, Wilgeheuwel, and Weltervreden. All mini substations that were vandalised – eight of which are in Roodepoort, four in Reuven SDC, one in Randburg, and and one in Midrand.  ALSO READ: WATCH: Informal settlements ‘stealing’ electricity costs Joburg millions Mangena said there is a desperate need for more mini-substations. “By Wednesday this week, City Power was in need of at least 14 mini-substation boxes to deal with several outages in different areas. All the mini-substations were vandalised – 8 of them in Roodepoort, 4 in Reuven SDC, 1 in Randburg, and 1 in Midrand. Mangena said load shedding has had a devastating impact on City Power’s infrastructure. “Over the last year, in which Eskom imposed at least 205 days of loadshedding, City Power replaced in excess of 390 mini-substations, at a cost of R200 million. This is the reason we have currently ran out of stock of mini-substations. Eskom imposed load shedding for at least 205 days last year, in which City Power replaced more than 390 mini substations, at a cost of R200 million.  Mangena added that more mini-substations have been ordered with deliveries expected from next week. “It must also be mentioned that the impact of high demand on mini-substations has left a huge dent of our budget and as it is we have already spent 80% of our budget for the whole financial year.” Mangena has urged residents to exercise calm and patience as City Power works hard to address the shortage of mini-substations. “We urge the residents to be vigilant and assist by protecting their electricity infrastructure and report any suspicious activity around the electricity installations,” Mangena said. Compiled by Faizel Patel ALSO READ: WATCH: City Power goes on disconnection spree in Alexandra, cutting several businesses’ power