While initially rumoured for unveiling at the recent Delhi Auto Expo, a new report from India has alleged that Honda will now only be revealing the replacement for the WR-V in the summer that runs from June to September. A model that comes at an important time for the Japanese marque, production is anticipated to start soon after reveal at the Tapukara Plant in Rajasthan using the same platform as the Amaze rather than the Fit/Jazz architecture the WR-V uses. According to gaadiwaadi.com, the use of the Amaze’s foundation won’t result in the same dimensions as expectations point to an overall length of 4.3 metres, 300 mm longer than the new WR-V and outside India’s sub-four metre regulations the outgoing model conformed to. While slated to incorporate styling and interior elements from the WR-V, the newcomer, which remains nameless for now, will also have a strong hybrid flavour on the propulsion front as India continues its gradual move away from diesel. Although tipped to receive the same 1.5-litre petrol engine as the WR-V in place of the 1.2-litre unit, the Indian model’s second option, the 1.5-litre turbodiesel, won’t be carried over as a result of the new more stringent BS6 emissions regulations. ALSO READ: Funked-up new Honda WR-V officially revealed Called BS6.2, the requirements, set to come into force in April, requires automakers to focus more on alternative power sources in order to reduce emissions further compared to the current BS6 implemented three years ago. As the modifications required have been deemed too expensive for the retention of diesel, it will give way to a hybrid powerunit speculation has alleged could be the same e:HEV setup as the Jazz/Fit. It will, therefore, make the hybrid mill unique to the newcomer as the WR-V that was released at the Gaikindo Indonesia International Auto Show in November last year derives motivation solely from the mentioned normally aspirated 1.5-litre engine that powers the HR-V and BR-V. Transmission choices are set to consist of a five-speed manual, CVT and in the case of the hybrid, an e-CVT. As with the new and outgoing WR-V, drive will again be routed to the front wheels only. Once revealed and production in progress, expect the new “WR-V” to be the model Honda will eventually bring to South Africa as the soon-to-be discontinued original emanated from the Tapukara facility. Therefore, expect more details to emerge in due course.