Redhill School’s class of 2022 has achieved outstanding mathematics and information technology (IT) results in the Independent Examinations Board (IEB) National Senior Certificate exams. The private school based in Morningside, Johannesburg, says it’s exceptionally proud of its Grade 12 pupils and how they have come through a global pandemic with strength and commitment. The matric results for the schools that wrote the IEB exams were released on Wednesday, with the class of 2022 achieving a pass rate of 98.42%. ALSO READ: 2022 IEB class gets ‘outstanding’ 98.42% pass rate after being hit hardest by Covid Redhill School’s biggest success story is that their matric pupils received phenomenal maths results, with over 60% of students receiving a distinction in mathematics. The school’s IT results are also outstanding with 20 out of 24 students receiving a distinction. Redhill School achieved a 100% university entrance (Bachelor’s Degree pass) with 17% of pupils having received a full house (seven or more distinctions). The school’s top achiever is Charlotte Louise Snyckers who got an average of 93% with 8 distinctions of which 7 distinctions were above 90%. Redhill School’s executive head Joseph Gerassi has described Snyckers as a young person of the highest calibre. Gerassi says Snyckers’ Bachelor’s Degree pass is a testament to her hard work and commitment to her studies, adding that he is confident in the knowledge that she will be an asset to whatever profession she chooses.    “Her teachers note that Charlotte is a student of the highest calibre who excels at creative problem-solving and critical thinking. In her recent Preliminary Examinations, Charlotte achieved seven distinctions,” Gerassi said in a testimonial letter.  RELATED: 2022 matric results: Twin sisters get seven and eight distinctions despite death in the family Gerassi says Snyckers choose a demanding subject package consisting of English Home Language, Afrikaans First Additional Language, Mathematics and Life Orientation.  In addition, she also studied French Second Additional Language, History, Dramatic Arts and further studies in English. “In recognition of her efforts, she was awarded Full Colours for Academics in 2021 and re-awarded in 2022. In addition, Charlotte participated in the Afrikaans Olympiad in 2020 and 2022 and was awarded Full Colours for her achievements.  “After the completion of her Preliminary Examinations, Charlotte was awarded Academic Honours as she was the top student in English, Dramatic Arts, History and further Studies English – a remarkable achievement.”  Extramurally, Snyckers has excelled in cultural activities. Her participation in the Speech and Drama Guild’s Public Speaking competition from 2018 to 2022 resulted in her being awarded colours for public speaking. Snyckers’ participation in the best speaker’s competition also resulted in her receiving a Colours Re-award as the best speaker. In recognition of her abilities, she was also elected secretary of the Ubuntu Committee in 2021 and, ultimately, to the student executive in 2022 as the head of the student judiciary. “Charlotte’s eight years of participation in the Marimba Band resulted in Colours in 2022, and her participation in the FEDA production of ‘Agamemnon’ (which won four major awards at the festival) resulted in Colours for Dramatic Arts in 2022. “In addition, Charlotte has pursued interests in Ballet, Archery and Poetry for the Rotary Club of Sandton,” said Gerassi.   •      Sascha Bischoff  Bischoff attained an average of 93% with eight distinctions of which six are 90% or above. He got a 100% in Mathematics. •        Keranya Moodley  Moodley attained an average of 92% with seven distinctions of which six are 90% or above. •        Kristyn Sookdhew  Sookdhew attained an average of 91% with nine distinctions of which six are 90% or above. •        Cannen Raiz Raiz, Redhill School’s student president, received five distinctions. •        Qhayiya Vuza Vuza received five distinctions. NOW READ: Class of 2022 achieves St Benedict’s 100% pass rate for 48th consecutive year