Sentencing proceedings of the eight men convicted of killing nine people and terrorising residents of Glebelands hostel in Umlazi have been postponed to February. The eight men – former Durban Central detective Bhekukwazi Mdweshu, Khayelihle Mbuthuma, Vukani Mcobothi, Eugene Hlophe, Mcomekile Ntshangase, Mbuyiselwa Mkhize, Mondli Mthethwa and Bongani Mbhele – were found guilty in October last year, on various offences related to the murders and attempted murders that took place at the hostel in south of Durban, between August 2014 and March 2016. ALSO READ: Eight men convicted for Glebelands murders Before the incidents, the group conspired with each other to eliminate or kill residents of the hostel, who threatened their control of the hostel. During the period of the offences, the following nine people were killed: Siniko Ncayiyane, Thulani Kati, Sipho Ndovela, Themba Pina, Nkosinathi Ndovela, William Mthembu, Thokozani Machi, Mzwandile Gawuza and Lucky Mtwa. Seven others were injured, resulting in the attempted murder charges. The convictions are as follows: – Mdweshu was convicted of conspiracy to commit murder and four counts of attempted murder. – Mbuthuma was convicted of three counts of murder. – Mcobothi was convicted of conspiracy to commit murder, four counts of attempted murder and three counts of murder. -Hlophe was convicted of four counts of attempted murder. -Ntshangase was convicted of four counts of attempted murder. -Mkhize was convicted of two counts of murder. -Mthethwa was convicted of two counts of attempted murder, two counts of murder, and unlawful possession of a prohibited firearm and ammunition. -Mbhele was convicted of two counts of murder. The men were meant to be sentenced on Thursday by the Pietermaritzburg High Court, but the State requested a postponement of the matter to confirm the availability of the judge for sentencing. Sentencing proceedings were deferred to 13 February 2023. The group has been remanded in custody. NOW READ: Glebelands hostel murders: Accused ‘celebrated’ the killings, says witness