ASUS unveiled several game-changing laptops and gadgets at CES 2023, held in Las Vegas earlier this month but their Spatial Vision Technology stole the show. The Citizen was invited to attend a virtual launch, titled Seeing An Incredible Future.  ASUS debuted new creator laptops, as well as an industry-first announcement: Spatial Vision Technology which brings 3D projects to life.  But first… The Spatial Vision Technology is reminiscent of the blue-and-red 3D glasses we had in the 1990s.  So, you may wonder what makes it so special.  Well, in 2022, we can achieve a similar experience… but with the naked eye. This is a dream come true for 3D content creators. ALSO READ: Gaming gadgets and innovations on display at CES 2023 Three-dimensional content can now be viewed on certain ASUS laptops, without the use of 3D glasses or VR (virtual reality) headsets.  Sounds like magic, we know, but it is science, and it’s called lenticular-based autostereoscopic 3D (or ‘naked-eye 3D’). It delivers a three-dimensional image effect by simultaneously showing a different set of pixels to a person’s left and right eye. Yep, simultaneously… ASUS explains:  Working in coordination with the lens layer embedded into the OLED display, an eye-tracking camera on top of the laptop detects eye position. The camera then optimises the images projected to the viewer, and you get to see the final result in brilliant 3D, on your laptop screen.  Remember we said it’s dream come true for 3D creators and designers?  That’s because creators will be able to see all the details of their project without having to review physical prototypes. Fun fact: 3D design is a sought-after skill in South Africa. While this is ideal for 3D content creators, gamers will be able to immerse themselves into their favourite gaming worlds like never before.  Add decent stereo headphones to the mix and you’re good to go. You can even sync RGB lights with the image projected on the laptop screen. Do you love movies? You can experience it in 3D, at home. And thanks to the Harman Kardon speakers, you are guaranteed an out-of-this-world movie experience. ALSO READ: Asus Zenbook 14 review: Powerful punch in a lightweight package Two of the laptops showcased at CES 2023 feature Spatial Vision Technology: The ProArt Studiobook 16 3D OLED and the Vivobook Pro 16 3D OLED.  The ProArt Studiobook is for top-tier creative professionals and is equipped with a colour-accurate display.  The Vivobook was presented as a “bold-looking laptop offering a look of youthful energy for burgeoning creatives who wish to create 3D experiences”.