A heatwave with persistently high temperatures is expected over north-eastern parts of Eastern Cape until Wednesday, and will last until Thursday in KwaZulu-Natal, the South African Weather Service (SAWS) has warned. “Prolonged exposure to midday sun poses a health risk, dehydration and heatstroke,” warned the weather service on Monday. ALSO READ: What to eat and drink during a heatwave Extremely high fire danger conditions are expected over northern and central parts of the Northern Cape. Eastern Cape Tomorrow 's Weather overview: 17.1.2023 pic.twitter.com/dSruemX98R— SA Weather Service (@SAWeatherServic) January 16, 2023 Gauteng: Fine and warm. The expected UVB sunburn index: Extreme. Mpumalanga: Morning fog along the escarpment, otherwise partly cloudy and warm. It will be cloudy and hot in places in the Lowveld with isolated showers and thundershowers. Limpopo: Partly cloudy and warm to hot with isolated showers and thundershowers, except in the south. Scattered showers and thundershowers are expected in the north-east. North West: Fine and hot weather. Free State: Fine and hot to very hot weather. Northern Cape: Partly cloudy and hot to very hot with isolated showers and thundershowers in the south. The wind along the coast will be moderate to fresh southerly to south-easterly. Western Cape: Cloudy along the west coast with morning fog patches, otherwise partly cloudy and warm to hot, but extremely hot over the eastern interior where isolated showers and thundershowers are expected in the afternoon.  ALSO READ: HEATWAVE: Residents warned to brace for scorching temperatures It will be cloudy along the south coast with drizzle. The wind along the coast will be moderate to northerly to north-westerly along the west coast north of Table Bay, otherwise fresh to strong easterly to south-easterly. The expected UVB sunburn index: Extreme. Western half of the Eastern Cape: Partly cloudy and warm to hot with isolated afternoon thunderstorms. The wind along the coast will be fresh easterly to southeasterly. Eastern half of the Eastern Cape: Partly cloudy and hot to very hot with isolated afternoon thunderstorms except in the extreme south-east. The wind along the coast will be light to moderate northeasterly, becoming fresh to strong north of Coffee Bay. KwaZulu-Natal: Partly cloudy in the morning, otherwise fine and hot, but very hot in the north. The wind along the coast will be moderate north-easterly, becoming fresh in the afternoon. The expected UVB sunburn index: Extreme.