Late former President Nelson Mandela’s granddaughter, Ndileka Mandela, has been left fuming after international reports claimed she accused Prince Harry and Meghan Markle of profiteering from her grandfather’s quotes.  This comes after the Netflix documentary Live to Lead was released criticising the couple for using Madiba’s quotes.  However, speaking to The Citizen on Thursday morning, Ndileka Mandela said she found nothing wrong with the new Netflix documentary series Live to Lead, adding that people want to “persecute Prince Harry and Meghan Markle for no reason”.   Several publications reported that Ndileka Mandela accused Prince Harry and his wife, Meghan Markle, of “using” apartheid struggle icon Nelson Mandela’s legacy for profit. According to Harry, the series, which premiered on the streaming service, Netflix, last month, was inspired by Nelson Mandela and done in partnership with the Nelson Mandela Foundation. ALSO SEE: KZN government denies it paid R50m for Mampintsha funeral According to reports, Ndileka Mandela said Harry and Meghan are “using” her grandfather’s quotes to “draw in people and make millions”, with no benefit coming to the Mandela family. “I’ve made peace with people using grandad’s name, but it’s still deeply upsetting and tedious every time it happens,” Ndileka Mandela was reportedly quoted as saying. Listen to Ndileka’s comment  ALSO READ: Remembering an icon: Today marks 9 years since Madiba’s passing While the reports indicated that Ndileka called the Netflix documentary series “deeply upsetting and tedious”, she told The Citizen it’s not true. Ndileka said she watched about two episodes of Live to Lead and found nothing wrong because her grandfather was a social justice activist. “I honestly don’t find anything wrong with them using the opening inspirational quote of grandad. I just think people are making a mountain of a molehill and they are wanting to persecute Meghan and Harry for no reason honestly.” Ndileka said Meghan has “always been an activist”. “This is in her activism work which my grandfather was. He was a social justice activist through and through.” “And his entry point into politics was through social activism, which is exactly what Meghan and Harry are doing,” Ndileka said. Ndileka said a lot of people use Mandela’s quotes. “A lot of people use grandad’s quote and nobody has made such a big raa raa as they are making out of Harry and Meghan using this quotation,” Ndileka said.