Here’s your morning news update: An easy-to-read selection of our top stories. Stay up to date with The Citizen – More News, Your Way. Former president Jacob Zuma has filed his answering affidavit opposing President Cyril Ramaphosa’s urgent application to the High Court in Johannesburg interdicting Zuma from pursuing his private prosecution against him. The former president says there is no urgency in the matter and that “any urgency that may exist is self-created”. Zuma instituted a private prosecution against Ramaphosa on the eve of the African National Congress (ANC) national elective conference, accusing the president of being an “accessory after the fact” in a criminal offence alleged against Advocate William Downer, who is accused of improperly sharing information in terms of the NPA Act. The South African Communist Party (SACP) has criticised ANC secretary-general Fikile Mbalula over his comments regarding a possible Cabinet reshuffle. Speaking at the Joe Slovo commemoration event held in Soweto on Friday, SACP general-secretary Solly Mapaila slammed Mbalula, saying that conversations around a Cabinet reshuffle were being held without consulting the tripartite alliance. The SACP is ANC’s alliance partner, alongside the Congress of South African Trade Unions (Cosatu). The extended African National Congress (ANC) 55th national conference affirmed the comprehensive implementation of its step-aside rule, vowing to never allow the opportunistic application of the contentious resolution. The step-aside policy was adopted at the 54th conference in 2017, but its application has drawn dissatisfaction, deepening divisions among members, with KwaZulu-Natal and the RET faction opposed the policy, calling for it to be scrapped. ANC youth leader and member of the organisational renewal commission rapporteur, Fasiha Hassan said all nine provinces have resolved to reaffirm the rule. Four suspects believed to be responsible for a shooting incident that took place in Westbury, west of Johannesburg, on New Year’s Eve have been arrested. The suspects, who are suspected to be involved in gangsterism, were nabbed on Thursday in the area in connection with a shooting on 31 December 2022. There were no injuries or fatalities related to the shooting incident, according to Gauteng police spokesperson Lieutenant Colonel Mavela Masondo. ALSO READ: Westbury community gatvol of gang shootings, camp outside cop shop This week, viewers of The Wife got to see what happened in the aftermath of Qhawe and Naledi’s accident which saw Naledi in need of surgery while Qhawe survived with minimal injuries.  In the dramatic fashion of the show, she found herself in need of surgery and it was – coincidentally – performed by her colleague (Tsietsi) and she was discharged shortly thereafter to go recover at home under the care of her father and boyfriend.  This came after a brief hospital stay where her sister (Tshedi) overheard their father telling an unconscious Naledi that he would choose to save her over Tshedi if faced with a life-threatening emergency between the two of them. Former Juventus, Chelsea and Italy striker Gianluca Vialli has died aged 58 of pancreatic cancer, his former club Sampdoria announced on Friday. Vialli was diagnosed with cancer in 2017 but was still able to play a significant role in Italy’s European Championship title-winning campaign in 2021 assisting long-time Sampdoria strike partner and national coach Roberto Mancini. “We have come a long way together, growing and searching, winning and dreaming. You came as a boy, we salute you as a man,” Genoa-based Sampdoria said in their statement. WATCH: Brazil pays final respects to football giant Pele