The Bulls will be out for revenge in the Champions Cup when they host Exeter Chiefs at Loftus Versfeld on Saturday evening. Jake White’s men started their Cup campaign on a high with a 42-36 win against Lyon at Loftus in early December but then crashed to Exeter in England 44-14. It’s now time to set the record straight in the third round clash and with the race for a place in the round of 16 very much on. ALSO READ: ‘Massive’ win in Wales a big confidence boost for Bulls, says captain Nortje There are no major surprises in the side named by the Bulls this week, with White doing his “coaching” remotely following an abdominal operation last Sunday. In the pack, Nizaam Carr gets a chance in the competition in a back-row, replacing Cyle Brink who started in the URC last weekend. He’ll play alongside Marco van Staden and Elrigh Louw, while at the back, Wandisile Simelane again starts at outside centre with Harold Vorster in the No 12 jersey. Kurt-Lee Arendse will run out at fullback, with Canan Moodie and David Kriel on the wings. There is also plenty of experience on the bench, with stalwarts such as Bismarck du Plessis, Dylan Smith, Johan Goosen and Lionel Mapoe having played plenty of big rugby in their careers. If some other matches go the way of the Bulls this weekend the Pretoria-based side could secure their place in the next round. Russel Winter, who has been one of the assistants to take charge of the side in the absence of White this week, said the focus was only on the match and not the permutations at stake. “We have got to front up on Saturday, stick to our systems, which will help us do well,” said Winter ahead of the game. “We are playing one of the top clubs in a top premium franchise competition, so the intensity will be higher and we are going to have to match it and improve our intensity if we want to get the win. “We have to be up for it physically, mentally and on our game, they might find some cracks; but if we do what we train, then we will be okay.” ALSO READ: Stormers to continue learning as focus shifts to Champions Cup Winter said the players know what to expect from the English visitors. “We know they (Exeter) are a very good side, we know that they are well coached and we know that they have a big scrum and maul well.” The Bulls go into the match on the back of a confidence-boosting 29-14 win against the Dragons in Newport in the URC a week ago. Kick-off is 7.30pm. Bulls: Kurt-Lee Arendse, Canan Moodie, Wandisile Simelane, Harold Vorster, David Kriel, Chris Smith, Zak Burger, Elrigh Louw, Nizaam Carr, Marco van Staden, Ruan Nortje (capt), Ruan Vermaak, Mornay Smith, Johan Grobbeelaar, Gerard Steenekamp. Bench: Bismarck du Plessis, Dylan Smith, Francois Klopper, Janko Swanepoel, WJ Steenkamp, Embrose Papier, Johan Goosen, Lionel Mapoe