A fully grown female tiger that escaped from her enclosure on a plot in the south of Johannesburg is still on the prowl, but close to being captured. The 8-year-old tiger, known as Sheba, was spotted at a waterhole in the Walker’s Fruit Farms area close to Midvaal on Monday evening, after search teams sent up a thermal imaging drone. Speaking to The Citizen, Gresham Mandy of the local community policing forum said a tracking team saw fresh paw prints around the hole. “She hasn’t been found yet, but she is very close to the vicinity where she escaped from. Obviously [we base this] due to the sightings we had last night and the fresh paw prints around the waterhole which is not too far from where she escaped.” Mandy said Sheba escaped after the fences were cut at the farm.  “According to the owner, we believe his fences were cut by people who had ill intentions which is probably to come and steal, and break in the house. There were no leads yet as to who might have cut the fence.” Mandy said since the tiger’s escape, it has attacked a 39-year-old man, a pig and two dogs. “Both dogs had to be put down due to the severity of their injuries. The 39-year-old man is expected to make a full recovery.” A fully grown female tiger known as Sheba that escaped from her enclosure on a plot in the south of Johannesburg is still on the prowl but close to being captured. Video: Gresham Mandy #Tiger #TigerEscape pic.twitter.com/cQv8nPzwCH— ???????????????????????? ???????????????????? (@FaizelPatel143) January 17, 2023 Mandy added Sheba will be sent to a “well-maintained big cat sanctuary” in the Midvaal after she is captured. “This is where her male partner is at the moment, her male partner was relocated on Sunday. She will be joining him once we capture her.” Mandy has urged people not to approach Sheba when they spot her. “Please don’t approach the tiger, she is a wild animal, she is dangerous, she will attack and kill. Rather call it in, call the NSPCA hotline, 10111 if you have to or Gauteng Nature Conservation. Send us a location pin if you spot her,” Mandy said. ALSO READ: Tiger, roughly the size of a female lion, on the loose in Walkerville