A 58-year-old woman was apprehended in Manaeneberg, Western Cape with drugs allegedly destined for the Voorbrug prison. According to police spokesperson Captain Frederick van Wyk, the Western Cape Provincial Extortion Task Team acted on information of a consignment of drugs and unknown items that were supposed to be delivered to inmates. “The members executed a search at the indicated premises in Bevan Street, Greenhaven, Manenberg and seized 385 mandrax tablets, 10kg of dagga, five grams of cocaine, 10 cellphones with batteries and 35 sim cards.” “According to information, the contraband would have been smuggled into Voorbrug prison. One female, aged 58, was arrested on charges of dealing in drugs,” said Van Wyk. The suspect will appear at the Athlone Magistrate’s Court in due time. In an unrelated incident, The South African Police Service’s Anti-Gang Unit in the Free State arrested an elderly woman for possession of drugs and bank cards in Matlakeng, Zastron. NOW READ: 72-year-old woman nabbed for possession of drugs and bank cards According to Sergeant Mahlomola Kareli, on Monday 15 August 2022 at about 9am, members of the Anti-Gang Unit were on crime prevention patrol duties in Matlakeng when they received information about a woman selling drugs. “Information led members to Dinotshing and upon arrival they searched the house and found mandrax and crystal meth with a street value of about R60,000. Members continued the search and found more than 70 identity documents, a drivers’ licence, 3 passports, 56 bank cards and an undisclosed amount of money,” said Kareli. A month before the elderly woman’s arrest, Gauteng police arrested a 44-year-old woman after drugs valued over R1.5 million were found at her premises in Florida. ALSO READ: Gauteng woman arrested in possession of drugs worth over R1.5 million She appeared before the Roodepoort Magistrate’s Court on charges of manufacturing, dealing as well as possession of narcotics. Her arrest came after police received information that she was manufacturing drugs on Lange Avenue, in Florida, Johannesburg. A team comprising of members of the Counter Narcotics Intelligence, West Rand K9 and the Provincial Investigation Unit raided the suspect’s premises and found drug manufacturing equipment. The team also found dried magic mushrooms, capsules containing magic mushroom powder, crystal meth and cannabis oil valued over R1.5 million. READ MORE: Woman arrested at OR Tambo airport for allegedly attempting to smuggle cocaine worth R1.4m