Amnesty International said the video showing South African National Defence Force (SANDF) soldiers burning corpses is evidence of the atrocities being committed in the forgotten war in Cabo Delgado. The clip circulating on social media depicts some soldiers hurling a corpse over a pile of burning rubble. A soldier then pours a liquid over the body as others, including one sporting a South African uniform, watch and film the scene on their mobile phones. The incident is believed to have taken place in November last year, and has been described by some as a war crime. The Department of Defence said that an investigation was under way. “The SANDF does not condone in any way the acts committed in the video and those who are found guilty of such acts will be brought to book,” it said. Amnesty International’s Director for East and Southern Africa, Tigere Chagutah, said the viral video gives a glimpse of what is going on away from the attention of international media in Cabo Delgado. “Tragically it appears that incidents of violence against civilians, extrajudicial executions and other human rights violations and violations of international humanitarian law are still occurring, as previously documented by Amnesty International. “The burning of what appears to be dead bodies by soldiers is deplorable and is likely a violation of international humanitarian law, which prohibits the mutilation of corpses and requires that the dead be disposed of in a respectful manner,” said Chagutah. ALSO READ: EFF condemns members of SANDF soldiers burning bodies in Mozambique Chagutah has called for an investigation into the incident. “Mozambican authorities and The Southern African Development Community Mission in Mozambique (SAMIM) must launch a prompt, thorough and independent investigation into the circumstances of these killings and the burning of the bodies and anyone against whom there is sufficient admissible evidence should be prosecuted in fair trials.” “Security in Cabo Delgado must not come at the cost of human rights violations,” he said. Attacks in Cabo Delgado started in October 2017 with killings of civilians by an armed group calling itself Al-Shabaab, which has no known operational relationship with Al-Shabaab in Somalia. Amnesty International has previously revealed evidence of extrajudicial executions and other unlawful killings, attempted beheadings, torture, mutilation, and other ill-treatment of alleged Al-Shabaab fighters who were held, as well as the transfer of a large number of corpses to apparent mass graves in Cabo Delgado. ALSO READ: Mozambique ex-president’s son, ex-spy bosses jailed for 12 years for graft