The Shakira and Gerard Pique cheating scandal and separation story is a gift that keeps on giving. The internet has had a field day after the Latin singer revealed how she found out the former footballer allegedly cheated on her.  Shakira’s reported diss track targeted at Pique, titled BZRP Music Session, has broken records on streaming platforms and YouTube.  The She Wolf hitmaker made several references to her ex and to his 23-year-old girlfriend, Clara Chia. “You swapped a Ferrari for a (Renault) Twingo, a Rolex for a Casio,” she sings in one lyric.  Shakira and Pique had been together for 12 years, having met in 2010 during the lead up to South Africa’s World Cup.  With their separation announcement, which came as a surprise for many, the former couple were never married or engaged, but have two children together. It was reported that their spilt may have been related to the former football player’s alleged cheating.  The Independent UK reported that the Colombian singer apparently revealed how she found out Pique was seeing another woman after some of her jam went missing.  The source of information is a lyric in one of Shakira’s songs released in August 2022, Te Felicito featuring Rauw Alejandro.  The song debuted three months after they announced their break up.  In one scene of the video, Shakira can be seen looking into a refrigerator and according to reports she found the answers she was looking for.  When asked what she was looking for, she said: “To find the truth! It is when I go to the fridge and find the head of Rauw Alejandro”. ALSO READ: Shakira sets social media alight with presumed Pique diss track It is further claimed that Shakira loves strawberry jam and the former Barcelona defender doesn’t. When she came back from travelling and returned home, she discovered that someone had eaten her jam.  Because Pique doesn’t like jam, Shakira assumed someone was in the house and had eaten her jam. With this information resurfacing, Twitter couldn’t help but find the funny in this incident, with several memes and jokes shared on the platform.  Shakira inside the jam jar investigating how much was missing  pic.twitter.com/fUGouZEgm2— AND IM VICTORIA MALCOLM (@fagfetchd) January 17, 2023 shakira's new jam pic.twitter.com/q2hXxhoV4z— Duolingo (@duolingo) January 18, 2023 shakira’s home-wrecker after having some pbj pic.twitter.com/4LSCbgsGT7— natalieportmanupdates (@peachyharmoni) January 19, 2023 Things that don’t lie according to Shakira:1) hips2) jam pic.twitter.com/9XZrQAGEW5— Sgi (@sabzsgizo) January 18, 2023 shakira about to leave her kitchen but she realises her jam is missing pic.twitter.com/hep4LMvdrh— ryxn (@itzryxxn) January 18, 2023 Imagine being in Shakira’s home, sleeping with her man & not trying on her clothes & eating her special jam? I need to hear from the side babe cos that is exactly what I would be doing. SHAKIRA! I would even be in the belly dancer chains in the mirror singing “lolololo lolololo”. https://t.co/ILnic127sW— Muthoni Maingi (@NonieMG) January 18, 2023