An intensified search continues into day two of the search for the missing body of one of four children that were allegedly swept out to sea at the Kariega Beach, in Kenton on Sea. According to police reports, the South African Police Service with the assistance from National Sea Rescue Institute of South Africa and other stakeholders have managed to recover three bodies of the four children after a Search and Recovery operation. The body of the fourth child still remains elusive. The children – aged between 9 and 12 years, were well acquainted and were enjoying a day out at the beach when the tragedy struck.  ALSO READ: Three people drown during baptism ritual in Soweto Warrant Officer Majola Nkohli from the SAPS confirmed to The Citizen that a call was received about 5pm on Sunday (New Year’s day) informing them of a drowning in progress. “At this point we are not aware of whether the children were all related or not. We just know they knew each other well and had been enjoying their holiday at the beach. Police proceeded to the scene at Kariega Beach together with members from the National Sea Rescue Institute,” he said. He confirmed that the three children who were pulled out died after extensive Cardio-Pulmonary Resuscitation efforts were made.  “The search for the fourth victim (a 9-year-old boy) is continuing.  The identities of the three deceased children will be released on completion of the formal identification process.  Police opened inquest dockets for further investigation,” he concluded. NOW READ: Jukskei River drownings: Search continues for missing three-month-old baby In a separate incident, last month, police recovered the body of a man who had drowned in the Sol Plaatjie dam in the Free State on another public holiday, namely Day of Reconciliation celebrated on 16 December. The Welkom Rescue and Divers team retrieved the body from the dam. The deceased was a male person between 28 and 30. He was declared dead by Emergency Medical Rescue personnel on the scene.