Dar es Salaam. Fortis Attorneys have opted to file a review on the Tanzania Football Federation (TFF)’s Legal, Ethics and Players’ Status Committee ruling that declared that Feisal Salum Abdallah alias Fei Toto is still Young Africans (Yanga)’s player. Fei Toto opted to terminate his contract with Yanga after submitting Sh100 million, which was his signing fee and Sh12 million as a three month salary as per the contract clause signed with Yanga. However, his decision was opposed by Yanga who then filed complaints to TFF’s committee as per the rules and regulations of the body. Yanga insist that Feisal has breached some agreements to terminate the contract, saying his current contract runs up to 2024. The Jangwani Street side claim that some important details were not properly followed by the player in his effort to terminate the contract. The committee chairman Saidi Soud declared that Fei Toto is still Yanga’s player, a decision that made Feisal’s lawyers to apply for a review before taking other legal steps. Speaking with The Citizen yesterday, Feisal’s lawyer Majembe Nduruma said they will present their arguments as soon as they complete to prepare what the TFF’s Committee has decided on the matter. Along with Fortis Attorneys are Crax Law Partners under Makubi Kunju Makubi. Nduruma said they do not agree with the recording of submission, reasoning and final orders made by the TFF committee. He explained that there are irregularities that have been spotted during the hearing of the case that they want to be resolved. “We have received the ruling and we are now working on it. We have to follow procedures before taking any other step. We will submit the review as soon as possible and within the required time,” said Majembe. Recently, there has been a tug-of-war between the club and Feisal, who opted his way out of the club while the latter claiming he has a valid contract until 2024. Feisal’s last match to play for Yanga before the transfer controversy was a 3-0 win over Coastal Union at the Benjamin Mkapa Stadium on December 20 last year. He has so far missed two matches versus Azam FC, who lost 3-2, against Mtibwa Sugar, who were beaten 1-0 and the Mapinduzi Cup tournament.