Orlando Pirates found themselves in hot water with the Premier Soccer League (PSL) for watering the pitch just before their DStv Premiership tie with Golden Arrows two weeks ago. ALSO READ: Riveiro happy to finally see Pirates scoring goals The Buccaneers  have subsequently been fined by the PSL’s disciplinary committee.Pirates hosted Arrows at the Orlando Stadium, in a game which the Soweto giants went on to win 3-1 with goals from Monnapule Saleng, Terrence Dzvukamanja and Vincent Pule. PSL prosecutor Zola Majavu has confirmed that Pirates appeared before the league’s DC on Friday and they have been fined an amount of R50 000 for the offence, with half of the money suspended for a period of 12 months. “I can confirm that Orlando Pirates Football Club earlier today (Friday) appeared before the DC to answer to charges of unlawfully watering the pitch contrary to the regulations in the match between them Golden Arrows Football Club. They pleaded guilty and were subsequently convicted and, in the result, they were fined a monetary amount of R50 000, half of it is suspended for a period of 12 months on condition that during the period of suspension, they’re not found guilty of a similar offence,” said Majavu. “The balance of the of the other R25 000 is payable effectively, together with a cost order, the costs thereof would be administratively completed by the league and on-forwarded to Orlando Pirates for payment together with the fine of R25 000.” The Buccaneers will be looking to forget about their DC hearing with the side on a task to register three wins in a row when they meet Marumo Gallants at Royal Bafokeng Stadium on Saturday night. Pirates are eager to collect as many points as possible, with the club aiming for a higher spot on the league standings by the end of the season. Having won their last two games, the Sea Robber’s camp should be high in confidence going into this game. READ MORE: Not having our way in transfer market crippled Chiefs, admits Zwane They will be playing against a Gallants side that has been very unfortunate in terms of getting results and Dan Malesela’s charges are lying at the bottom of the log with 15 points from 19 matches, while Bucs are in fourth place with 25 points from 17 games.