Sheba the tiger has been found and euthanized after killing another Walkerville neighbourhood dog. Community policing forum representative Gresham Mandy told The Citizen that they had received reports of activity on the Arboretum Farm at Walkers Fruit Farms on Wednesday at around 1am. The fully grown tigress escaped from her enclosure on a plot in the south of Johannesburg last week. Her owner reported that his fence had been deliberately cut. ALSO READ: Tiger, roughly the size of a female lion, on the loose in Walkerville Mandy said Sheba had moved during the night across the hills to the west side of Fruit Farm, bringing her close to livestock and others residents in a more densely populated area. He said it was sad to see Sheba euthanized. “Unfortunately, Sheba did not have a happy ending. At 2 o’ clock this morning she entered another farm, three kilometers from her original sighting and she attacked and killed the farmers dog and the decision was made by the owner of the tiger to euthanize her.” “This was not an easy decision to make at the time, and the safety of the community of Walkers Fruit Farms was a priority,” Mandy said. The fully grown tigress was part of a privately owned male/female duo, living on a small holding in Walker Fruit Farm. Sheba escaped from her enclosure after the fences were cut. “According to the owner, we believe his fences were cut by people who had ill intentions which is probably to come and steal and break in the house. There are no leads yet as to who might have cut the fence,” he said. After Sheba escaped, she attacked a 39-year-old man, a pig and two dogs. “Both dogs had to be put down due to the severity of their injuries.  The 39-year-old man is expected to make a full recovery.” Mandy added Sheba was supposed to be sent to a “well-maintained big cat sanctuary” in Midvaal has she been capture alive. “This is where her male partner is at the moment, her male partner was relocated on Sunday.” *This is a developing story  NOW WATCH: Sheba the tiger close to being captured