The Lions will not allow themselves to be sidetracked by the United Rugby Championship (URC) log as they prepare to for a tough challenge against an improving Munster team at Musgrave Park in Cork on Friday night (kick-off 9:35pm). The Lions have seen themselves tumble from fifth on the log to 11th in the space of two weeks after two big defeats against the Sharks and Stormers, which has put pressure on them to try and get themselves back into the top eight, as they have to finish there to make the play-offs. ALSO READ: It’s simple … It’s make or break for the Lions in Europe this month However loose forward Jaco Kriel says that the team is not focused on the log as that would disrupt them from the task at hand.  “I have always believed throughout my career that if you looked at the log too much you are going to put yourself under pressure. It is a tight log and we went from fifth to 11th in a matter of weeks,” said Kriel. “So for us we have to take it week by week and we have always said that as long as we do that, taking it week by week and game by game, the log will look after itself. If you get side tracked by the log you won’t focus on the job at hand.” Despite the Lions heading into the match in dreadful form after extending their losing streak against South African sides to 11 games, Kriel believes that they will produce better results on tour, especially since the teams home form hasn’t been up to scratch this season. “On tour, there are no external distractions, so there’s bonding and nothing else to do except get to know the guy next to you. We have spoken about the fact that we seem to struggle against South African sides, which is sad to see because it hasn’t always been the case,” said Kriel. “If you want to reach the playoffs, you have to win your home games, which we’re not doing at this stage. That makes our away games more important. “Munster are currently on a good run, so it’s going to be a very tough game. They are going to be up for it and probably feel they owe us one (after losing to the Lions at Ellis Park last season). “They are a team that started the season poorly, but the way they have been playing over the last couple of games has been a huge improvement from the start of the season and we have to be ready for that.” Friday’s match will also be played at the unfamiliar venue of Musgrave Park, which has an artificial pitch and a place that none of the Lions touring squad has played at before.