With just under five years having passed since its world debut, which subsequently resulted in a slew of global awards, Jaguar has pulled the covers off of the updated I-Pace South Africa will be privy to later this year. Although subtly tweaked three years ago, the latest rounds of adaptions are more prominent than new colours and alloy wheels as they consist of body coloured instead of gloss black front and rear bumpers, a restyled grille finished in Atlas Grey, black-and-grey Jaguar badges and Atlas Grey side blades as well as the option of a gloss black rear roof section. Rounding the changes off is the still optional panoramic roof and new satin sheens for the Carpathian Grey and Eiger Grey paint options. Inside, the overall look continues unchanged with the retention of not only the 12.3-inch digital instrument cluster, but also the five-inch climate control display. ALSO READ: Jaguar puts price on updated all-electric I-Pace Standard though after being a previous option is wireless Apple CarPlay and Android Auto integration with the ten-inch Pivi Pro touchscreen infotainment system. On the motivation front, the 90-kWh electric motor has been left untouched with outputs still of 294kW/696Nm, which translates to a claimed range of 470 km, 0-100 km/h in 4.8 seconds and a limited top speed of 200 km/h. As before, drive is routed to all four wheels with three charging methods featuring; a 12 hour wait using a seven kilowatt wallbox, an eight hour recess when using an 11 kW outlet and just over an hour plugged-in to a 100 kW fast charger. Making use of the latter allows for a range of 127 km after 15 minutes with 53 km being available after an hour plugged-in to the 11 kW outlet. The same 60 minutes using the seven kilowatt charging method meanwhile frees-up 35 km of range. Now available for ordering in Europe, pricing for the I-Pace is still to be confirmed, but expect a premium over the current model’s starting price of R2 074 700 once sales commence from the middle of this year.