Romain Folz received rave reviews when he first came into the South African coaching scene when he joined Marumo Gallants.  ALSO READ: AmaZulu coach Folz faces the chop But things have not gone as he would have probably wished. Folz was fired by Gallants just four games into the season following a run of indifferent results.  The 32-year-old mentor however expressed his unhappiness at how certain forces within the Limpopo club wanted to control his team selections. Folz was later snapped up by AmaZulu who he guided to the final of the MTN8. It was then believed he could be the answer the Durban side had been looking for. He could not deliver the long awaited trophy to Usuthu and things have not been going his way in the DStv Premiership either. But when asked if he is worried that he has not set the local football scene alight since his arrival, Folz gave a short answer.  “NO! I am not worried,” was all the half French, half Moroccan coach was prepared to say. But reports have started to suggest that his time in Durban is becoming shorter with each game he fails to win.  And that is why he is hoping for a better result when he guides his side against Kaizer Chiefs on Friday evening. ALSO READ: Big boost for Pirates as Mosele returns ahead of crucial Arrows tie The two sides meet at Moses Mabhida Stadium for a league encounter with both sides needing a win for various reasons.   “We need the points,” said Folz. “So, no matter the context of the game and everything, we need to give a good performance.  “We need to get the points, and that is all that matters at this moment in time.”  Usuthu will go into the match on the back of a 2-0 loss to neighbours Royal AM last weekend. “There are a lot of things that we need to improve. I don’t think it was all bad.  “I think we were able to create a lot of chances but our capacity to use them was poor.  “Defensively, other than the three situations that happened in the play, we were not in that much trouble.  “It is now a matter of finding the right balance but, yes the difference is that we want to improve and raise the standard,” says Folz.