Extremely high fire danger conditions are expected in places over the interior of the Namakwa and northern areas of the Northern Cape on Saturday, warned the South African Weather Service (SAWS) on Friday. Residents in the Beaufort West municipality in the Western Cape and the Khai-Ma Municipality in the Northern Cape should expect a heat wave with persistently high temperatures until Sunday. The weather service has also issued a yellow level 1 warning for damaging waves, resulting in localised disruptions to beachfront activities, between Alexander Bay and Cape Agulhas from late Saturday night throughout Sunday. Northern Cape Tomorrow 's Weather overview: 14.1.2023 pic.twitter.com/QymCQVHOil Gauteng: Partly cloudy and warm weather. The expected UVB sunburn index: Low. Mpumalanga: Cloudy with morning fog along the escarpment, otherwise partly cloudy and warm but in the Lowveld.  Limpopo: Cloudy in the east with morning fog along the southern escarpment, otherwise partly cloudy and warm to hot with isolated thundershowers in the north.  North West: Fine and hot weather.   Free State: Partly cloudy and hot to very hot weather, with isolated showers and thundershowers in the south but fine in the north west.  ALSO READ: Heatwave conditions expected in parts of Free State and Western Cape Northern Cape: Fine and very hot to extremely hot weather, becoming partly cloudy in the south. The wind along the coast will be light to moderate southerly to southeasterly becoming fresh to strong the afternoon.  Western Cape: Cloudy along the south coast, otherwise partly cloudy and warm to hot, but very hot over the north-eastern interior where there will be very isolated thunderstorms. It will be fine in the west.  The wind along the coast will be moderate to fresh southerly to south-westerly north of Cape Point, reaching strong from late morning, otherwise light to moderate southerly to south-easterly. The expected UVB sunburn index: Extreme.  Western half of the Eastern Cape: Partly cloudy and warm to hot, but cloudy along the coast and adjacent interior. Isolated showers and thundershowers can be expected in places in the eastern interior. The wind along the coast will be Light to moderate southerly to southwesterly.  LISTEN: Expect a wet 2023, with above normal rainfall until expected till autumn Eastern half of the Eastern Cape: Cloudy along the coast, otherwise partly cloudy and warm to hot with isolated showers and thundershowers, but showers and rain along the coast. The wind along the coast will be Light to moderate easterly to southeasterly.  KwaZulu-Natal: Partly cloudy and hot, but very hot in the north. The wind along the coast will be Moderate to fresh northerly to north-easterly, becoming gentle southerly in the extreme south in the afternoon. The expected UVB sunburn index: Extreme.