Gauteng police have launched a manhunt for suspects after two people were shot dead and three others wounded in Eldorado Park, southwest of Johannesburg. The shooting incident, which is suspected to be related to gangsterism in the area, occurred on Thursday evening. ALSO READ: Westbury New Year’s Eve shooting suspects arrested Police spokesperson Lieutenant Colonel Mavela Masondo said the five victims were inside an apartment building when unknown gunmen shot at them through the window at approximately 8:30pm. “Two of the victims were certified dead on the scene while three were taken to the local medical centre for treatment. “The motive for the shooting cannot be confirmed at this stage, although it is suspected to be related to gangsterism in the area,” said Masondo on Friday. Police are appealing to anyone who might have information that can help in the investigation or assist in the apprehension of the suspects to call the nearest police station or crime stop at 08600 10111. “Information can also be given anonymously via MySAPS App which can be downloaded from any smartphone.” In a separate incident, four suspects believed to be responsible for a shooting incident that took place in Westbury, west of Johannesburg, on New Year’s Eve have been arrested. The suspects, who are suspected to be involved in gangsterism, were nabbed on Thursday, in the area, in connection with the shooting on 31 December 2022. Masondo said there were no injuries or fatalities related to the shooting incident.  He said the four arrested suspects were found in possession of firearms and a car that was reported to be stolen in Ennerdale. A magazine loaded with 12 live ammunition and drugs were also recovered at a block of flats in Coronationville. The suspects were charged with possession of a suspected stolen vehicle, possession of an unlicensed firearm, possession of ammunition and possession of drugs. They were expected to appear in the Johannesburg Magistrate’s Court on Monday. NOW READ: Limpopo police nab third suspect linked to 9 rape cases