Apart from losing their ace spinner to suspension, there were no other mishaps for the Joburg Super Kings as Faf du Plessis’ fabulous unbeaten century carried them to a comfortable eight-wicket victory with five balls to spare in their SA20 match against Durban’s Super Giants at the Wanderers on Tuesday night. Shortly before the start of the match, it was announced that Aaron Phangiso, both their leading wicket-taker and most economical frontline bowler, had been suspended for an illegal bowling action. Read more: JSK say ta-ta to Phangiso, need to grit their teeth to make semis But the Super Kings shrugged that off, with mystery spinner Maheesh Theeksana taking 3/30 in his four overs as Durban’s Super Giants, who were sent in to bat, were restricted to 178/6. Captain Du Plessis, opening the innings, was then in imperious form as he raced to a 54-ball century, the first in the successful new South African T20 franchise league. He finished with 113 not out off 58 deliveries, with eight sixes, driving and hooking brilliantly. The Super Kings’ chase was not without struggle at the start though, as the bowlers found a bit of assistance from a pitch that also seemed two-paced at times. Du Plessis and Reeza Hendricks could only score 25 runs in the first five overs, but 16 runs came off Jason Holder in the sixth over as Joburg scored 41 without loss in the powerplay. Du Plessis began changing gears then and went to his fifty off 33 balls and then just continued playing a series of great strokes, leading from the front for his team. The 38-year-old is still fit to take on the best at franchise level. Needing 104 off the last nine overs, Hendricks needed to fire as well and he found some form as he hit out towards the end of his innings and finished with a run-a-ball 45, putting on 157 for the first wicket with Du Plessis, the biggest partnership so far in the SA20. The coastal team also found the going tough and Theekshana dismissing Kyle Mayers (28 off 15) and Wiaan Mulder (0) in the fifth over left Durban’s Super Giants on 46/3. Heinrich Klaasen then took control of the innings with 65 off 48 balls, supported by Matthew Breetzke (28) as they added 75 off 58 deliveries for the fourth wicket. Holder then bludgeoned 28 not out off 12 balls at the death to give Super Giants a total they would have felt was competitive, until Du Plessis’ brilliance saw Joburg coast home. Read more: Super Kings beat Sunrisers in SA20 thriller Gerald Coetzee was also outstanding with the ball for the home team, taking 3/21 in three overs.