Tarime. Barrick Gold has paid Sh21.594 billion to compensate 4,881 people who have agreed to leave for the company to expand mining in its North Mara mine. The company said in a statement yesterday that there was mutual agreement between the residents and the Arbitration Committee.  “Up to now, Barrick Gold Corporation, which operates the mine in partnership with the Government of Tanzania through the Twiga Minerals Corporation, has spent Sh21.594 billion to pay the 4,881 citizens,” the company stated. The Tarime District Commissioner (DC), Mr Michael Mntenjele, who is the chairman of the Arbitration Committee formed by the government, said at the end of the week that they continue to encourage the citizens who were compensated to leave voluntarily, to allow expansion of the mining activities. “We urge those who have already been paid compensation to leave so that the Mine can continue to clean up this area and finally be able to invest. Habitable houses will not be demolished. Demolition exercise will only cover vacated houses,” he told reporters. He also warned those who try to politicise the issue. “There are politicians who bring politics into this - something that is not good because this is reality. A person is paid according to properties that existed before. If you start mixing politics with these issues, you will waste your time,” he added. According to a government valuer, Mr Rashid Magetta, the 4,881 citizens are among the 5,162 citizens who are on the list to be compensated for their various properties found in the Komarera area. He said there are a few people who after being compensated for their houses, were dishonest and rented them to others before the clean-up started in the area. The chairman of Ntarechagini Township in Komarera village, Mr Marwa Omuko, told journalists who visited the area that some residents of the township are among the people who were educated by the Arbitration Committee and agreed to go and collect compensation for their property. “For example, my grandmother, after the committee elaborated to her what she deserves to be paid, she agreed but many have resisted taking the compensation claiming that their properties were undervalued,” said Mr Omuko.