Sharks boss Neil Powell has picked 10 Springboks in his starting team for the Durban side’s Champions Cup match against Bordeaux Begles at Kings Park on Saturday. A second-string side ran out in the United Rugby Championship against Connacht in Ireland last weekend and crashed 24-12, with many first-choice players staying behind in Durban. They will now be unleashed on the French side, with the Sharks looking to make it three from three in the Champions Cup. So far the Sharks have beaten Harlequins (39-31) and the Begles (19-16). There are minimal changes to the last Sharks side that ran out at home, in the URC against the Bulls, a few weeks ago. Vincent Tshituka returns for Henco Venter on the flank in the only change to the pack, while at the back Jaden Hendrikse comes in for Grant Williams at scrumhalf and Wallaby international Ben Tapuai returns at inside centre for Rohan Janse van Rensburg who will feature off the bench. ALSO READ: Bulls name formidable side to ‘front us’ against Exeter “We’re putting a big emphasis on the Champions Cup, but in the same breath, we’re also under a bit of pressure in the URC with the resting period coming up for some of the Boks. “We really need to perform in the URC too and there is equal emphasis on performing in both competitions,” said Sharks prop Thomas du Toit ahead of the big match on Saturday. “But we aren’t looking too far ahead, the biggest and most important match is the next one and we’re treating it like that. “Winning at home is important and winning this match at home is going to be vitally important in this competition and we firmly believe if we get points this weekend and more points next weekend (against Harlequins) then we will be sitting pretty in the competition. “We will look to play for the full 80 minutes, it’s something we strive towards and something we got close to against the Bulls when we started and ended well.” Sharks: Boeta Chamberlain, Marnus Potgieter, Lukhanyo Am, Ben Tapuai, Makazole Mapimpi, Curwin Bosch, Jaden Hendrickse, Sikhumbuzo Notshe, Vincent Tshituka, Siya Kolisi (capt), Gerbrandt Grobler, Eben Etzebeth, Thomas du Toit, Bongi Mbonambi, Ox Nche. Bench: Kerron van Vuuren, Ntuthuko Mchunu, Carlu Sadie, Hyron Andrews, Phepsi Buthelezi, Cameron Wright, Lionel Cronje, Rohan Janse van Rensburg