Dar es Salaam. Tanzania Football Federation (TFF) has begun the hunt for the head coach of the national football team (Taifa Stars) ahead of several international competitions. TFF technical director Oscar Mirambo recently stated that they are now looking for the national team coach with the best track record and experience in African football. “We are aware that there is a Taifa Stars assignment in March, and our temporary coach, Janza, has acquired another assignment in Zambia. We are presently in the process of seeking for the Taifa Stars head coach, and we will shortly inform the public who will be in charge of the position,” Mirambo stated in an interview with The Citizen. Taifa Stars were managed by Zambian Hanour Janza, who took over for Danish tactician Kim Poulsen, who agreed with TFF to quit the technical bench and be demoted to the national junior teams until his contract expired in 2024. TFF made the decision following Taifa Stars’ 1-0 loss to Uganda’s The Cranes in last year’s Africa Nations Championships (CHAN) qualifiers at the Benjamin Mkapa Stadium. A late goal from Travis Mutyaba clinched the Cranes’ victory at the Benjamin Mkapa Stadium, as the Taifa Stars suffered a setback in their bid to qualify for the tournament, and Poulsen has paid the price. Poulsen was named in February 2021, signing a three-year contract to replace Burundian Etienne Ndayiragijje, who was returning to the Taifa Stars for the second time. The Danish coach impressed during his first stint, which lasted from 2012 to 2013, but his second stint has been less successful, with only seven of his 19 games won. However, Janza, the former head coach of Namungo FC, left the country in December of last year to become the Technical Director of Zesco United. The team will now be led by Meck Maxime and goalkeeper coach Juma Kaseja. Taifa Stars are in Africa Cup of Nations (AFCON) qualifying group F with Algeria, Niger, and Uganda. Taifa Stars have one point from two matches and are currently in third place. According to the schedule, Taifa Stars will face Uganda’s equivalent, The Cranes, on March 20 in Uganda, and the two teams will meet again on March 27 at the Benjamin Mkapa Stadium. Tanzania will play Niger at the Benjamin Mkapa Stadium on June 12 before travelling to Algiers to face Algeria on September 4.