South African fans of The Real Housewives franchise finally get to see just who will be making up the cast of the latest city to join the Real Housewives universe, The Real Housewives of Gqeberha (RHOGQ).  In a cast announcement shared this week, DStv announced that the Real Housewives universe would be becoming bigger, bolder and blingier with the addition of RHOGQ, premiering on 1Magic on 3 February, at 8.30pm. “Set in a city known for its stunning coastlines and friendly residents, the cast of RHOGQ are ready to show you a side to Gqeberha that you’ve never seen before, one where the circles are tight and where the women bond through power.” The channel announced the first five castmates who will be gracing your screens soon and confirmed that the identities of the other cast members would be released in due course. IG: @norma_nicol_ Described as “career-focused and fierce”, when Norma isn’t running things as an events planner at Nelson Mandela Bay Stadium, she’s a dedicated wife and mom.  “Married into Ghanaian royalty, Norma is the real deal when it comes to glitz and glam. She stylishly juggles many roles without breaking a nail – but will anyone dare come for her throne?” IG: @buli.g Most people will recognise Buli as a former Idols SA contestant but she has since gone on to build a career as an “in-demand MC, high-end events planner, brand ambassador, award-winning businesswoman and now, Real Housewife”. According to DStv, to say that the charismatic Buli G’s CV is impressive would be an understatement.  She is expected to become known as a highly connected social butterfly known for bringing the light into any room she enters. “Will her light be too bright for some in the cast?” ALSO READ: Real Housewives of Cape Town reactions: ‘This show is a joke’ IG: @thelizprins “A dedicated mom and socialite who loves jogging, Liz is a straight shooter. But beneath that bubbly exterior is a woman who is softer than she seems. Still recovering from the loss of her beloved husband, the construction project manager who sold her company for eight figures is navigating life as a widow. Her heart might be in the right place, but will her words land her in hot water with the group?” IG: @una.faku “Self-proclaimed Gqeberha royalty, Unathi is no shrinking violet. As a successful salon owner and the wife of the City’s former mayor, she is comfortable in the public eye and having her every move watched.”  She has also been described as “a gym lover whose social media pages are peppered with fitness snaps”, but she’s also a dedicated and doting mother.  Will she be able to let her guard down with the other ladies? IG: @mrs2_mather According to producers, Ashleigh is the sweetheart of the group. A fresh-faced woman who is a wife and mom who works in the fabulously fast-paced fashion industry.  “But don’t be fooled: while she might be unassuming, she’s no pushover. With her family owning two of the biggest clubs in the city, she certainly has a wild side that might catch her castmates by surprise. How will they react when she lets her hair down?” “Since its debut in 2017, the local Real Housewives universe has been a hit with our audiences, bringing drama, wit and glamour to our screens. Each instalment has been a hot topic of discussion for viewers, constantly trending online and keeping audiences engaged. We’re excited to expand into the city of Gqeberha, bringing fresh faces into a world our viewers love. We’re keen to see how audiences resonate with this newest instalment,” commented Shirley Adonisi, Director of Local Entertainment Channels at M-Net. The Real Housewives franchise is distributed internationally by NBCUniversal Formats, which is part of Universal International Studios, a division of Universal Studio Group.  The Real Housewives of Gqeberha is the country’s fifth instalment of the hit global franchise, and Africa’s seventh overall. Don’t miss the premiere of The Real Housewives of Gqeberha on 1Magic (DStv Channel 103) on Friday, 3 February 8.30 pm.  READ NEXT: ‘Real Housewives of Cape Town’ to air on Mzansi Magic