Dar es Salaam.  Jubilee Life Insurance has awarded Sh30.37 million in scholarship funds to five students who won the company’s Live Free Painting Competition. Speaking yesterday during the handing over ceremony, chief executive officer of Jubilee Life Insurance Helena Mzena said the five students who are currently in secondary schools won the competition five years ago. She said the  Live Free Painting Competition is an annual painting competition targeting pupils in public primary schools aged six to 14 and part of the prize is a post-primary school education scholarship that the students are currently receiving. “We launched it during the company’s 80th anniversary, when children were in standard four in various schools, and they were to receive the scholarship money after winning the painting competition, which we believe would help them support their educational ambitions,” she said. Jubilee Insurance’s board member Shabir Abji says the fund is part of the company’s plan to support the young generation to achieve their academic goals. “We hope that these funds will help you with your school expenses, as that is what we want to see,” he said. Gracing the event, the commissioner general of the Tanzania Insurance Regulatory Authority (Tira), Mr Baghayo Saqware, also emphasised to parents that, in addition to ensuring their children receive an education, they must also invest in their future. One way, he says, is to enrol children in the life insurance system. “You’re giving them the protection that will stay with them for life. This can be a huge advantage for your children,” he said. Mr Saqware also said there are several new reforms in terms of regulations and products including the ongoing discussion of the Universal Health Insurance (UHI) Bill, which will eventually change the adoption and availability of insurance services. The insurance subsector aims to guarantee that its contribution to the GDP reaches five percent and that penetration is at least 50 percent, as stated in the government’s Financial Master Plan 2030.