Drug addiction is a disaster all across the world, with powerful cartels infiltrating heroin, cocaine, and the like using any and all means at their disposal. Tanzania has been heavily struck by such cartels, with drug mules delivering tonnes of prohibited narcotics worth billions of dollars to the domestic market or in transit to other countries. Clearly, many young individuals of both sexes have fallen victim to drugs, rendering thousands of the country’s labour force unable to contribute effectively to the national economy. Following particular operations to combat the vice, the volume of narcotics entering the country has decreased dramatically in recent years. However, the demand for the drugs has not lessened even though many addicts are receiving treatment at various sober houses across the nation. Due to the shortage of drugs, another issue has arisen: cutting small stripes (motion thread) from banknotes, which are mixed with addictive chemicals to produce effects similar to heroin and cocaine. Alarmingly, the habit is growing, and if it is allowed to continue, the repercussions will be harmful to the addicts’ health and expensive for the nation to reprint the destroyed banknotes. Needless to add, if narcotics are not to enter the country, security organs must step up their game and take proper action against all drug abusers who are prevalent in metropolitan areas. It is illegal to destroy banknotes for any reason, yet the junkies, who are the principal offenders of the vice, are visible on the streets, with the majority of them posing as commuter bus touts. The money spent by the government to replace the destroyed banknotes is enormous and might have been utilised to address a slew of social service issues confronting Tanzanians. A few people, the bulk of whom contribute insignificantly to the country’s economy, should not be allowed to cause further issues for society and the country as a whole. Although there are stricter rules against drug traffickers and abusers, the current punishments do not appear to intimidate them. It is past time for the government to devise more effective ways to combat the vice.