Marumo Gallants sent out a statement on Monday announcing that their coach Dan ‘Dance’ Malesela was on special leave.  ALSO READ: Zwane on Khune/Kwinika omission: ‘There’s been individual errors’ In Malesela’s absence, the club also announced technical team changes which many saw as bizarre.  It said it had appointed an interim technical team who will guide the team with Dylan Kerr as an advisor.  Raymond Mdaka will be the head coach in the new structure. It has however since been revealed that Kerr will be in charge.  But the problem is that he does not hold the required qualifications for when the team goes to play in the Caf Confederation Cup.  Malesela meanwhile confirmed his leave and revealed the hardships he has gone through at the club during an interview with Robert Marawa. “I didn’t ask for leave,” said the former Chippa United mentor. He said he could sense that something like this was coming.  “I was prepared to go through something like this. I was put on special leave atChippa United.  “But we need to tread carefully because I’m still with the club and I’m willing to wait and see,” added Malesela.  “With the (limited) resources we have, we have little and cannot move forward. I had to take players from the bench.  “Some were not even registered but I had to patch things up. I’ve never had the privilege of resources on any club or have the budget.” Malesela said he tried everything to get things going at Gallants but it was not to be.  “I spent sleepless nights over not winning games. We’ve created chances to win, but still no wins.  “Football goes with luck (sometimes), and luck comes from what we do as a club,” added Malesela.  The club made changes after the 2-0 loss to Orlando Pirates on Saturday in a DStv Premiership match.  ALSO READ: Chiefs coach Zwane hails Polokwane ‘luck’ for Royal AM win This saw the team firmly stuck at the bottom of the Premiership standings with 15 points after 20 games. “The above changes come as current head coach Dan Malesela and technical director Harris Choeu embark on a period of special leave.  “This break will give Malesela and Choeu the opportunity to recoup energies and observe the team from a distance,” read a part of the statement sent out by the club.  “This will help them to objectively assess the causes of recent results and develop strategies to improve the team’s performance going forward.” “Malesela remains the head coach of Gallants.”