Ailing state-owned parastatal Eskom has warned that continuous stage 6 load shedding will be implemented from 4pm on Wednesday, until further notice. The power utility said the higher stage of the deliberate power cuts is necessary due to the severe capacity constraints. Eskom spokesperson Sikonathi Mantshantsha said generation capacity has to be limited. “Eskom will continue to manage the limited emergency generation reserves to supplement generation capacity. Eskom will publish a further update as soon as there are any significant changes.” Mantshantsha said there have been a number of breakdowns which has necessitated the higher load shedding stages. “Eleven generators amounting to 5 084MW of capacity suffered breakdowns since Tuesday morning, further reducing available capacity and necessitating the increase in the stages of load shedding. “These were a unit each at the Camden, Duvha, Grootvlei, Hendrina, Kendal, and two units each at Kriel, Majuba and Matla power stations. “A unit each at Camden, Duvha, Hendrina, Kriel, Matimba and Matla power stations have returned to service, representing 2 540MW of capacity,” Mantshatsha said. ALSO READ: Ramaphosa: ANC’s top priority is to end load shedding Mantshantsha said planned maintenance is currently 5 739MW, while breakdowns amount to 18 041MW of capacity. “Eskom requests the public to reduce the usage of electricity and to exercise patience and tolerance during this difficult period.” “Load shedding is implemented only as a last resort in view of the shortage of generation capacity and the need to attend to breakdowns,” he said. Meanwhile, ass the country continues to suffer from excruciating and deliberate load shedding, African National Congress (ANC) President Cyril Ramaphosa vowed to end the rolling blackouts. South Africa has so far experienced more than 230 days of load shedding with January 2022 the only month without any blackouts as failing state-owned entity Eskom battles to keep the lights on. The parastatal has warned South Africans will have to work around the deliberate power cuts until further notice. ALSO READ: South Africa is dying Mr President, what are you doing about it?