Unguja. Zanzibaris have expressed different views regarding the laying of foundation stones for 55 development projects by the government of Zanzibar, as part of the celebrations of the 59th anniversary of the revolution. In the celebrations that culminate today, the projects have been launched in all 11 districts of Unguja and Pemba regions. The projects include primary and secondary schools, district hospitals and health centres, water wells, hotels, modern fish markets and fish storage rooms. Other projects were crop processing centres, electricity, youth training centres, entrepreneurs’ market, laboratories and playgrounds. Among the projects, Unguja has 35 projects and Pemba 20. Along with the ministers, the projects have been launched and the foundation stones laid by senior national leaders including President Samia Suluhu Hassan, Dr Hussein Mwinyi, the first and second vice presidents, Dr Philip Mpango, Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa and retired presidents Dr Ali Mohamed Shein, Amani Karume and Jakaya Kikwete. The leaders at different times asked the people to respect the revolution while saying that was the right way to sustain it because it aimed to free the people of Zanzibar from discrimination and free them socially and economically. However, the Vice-Chairman of the National Celebrations Committee, Minister of State, Regional Administrations and Special Departments of SMZ, Masoud Ali Mohamed said it was not easy to get the actual cost figures of the projects but it is millions of money spent. Speaking at different times about the projects, some of the citizens applauded the measures but cautioned the durability of the projects claiming that many executives lacked patriotism. Said Idd, a resident of Unguja, said the leadership of Dr Mwinyi has shown a sincere desire to solve the problems of poor citizens because they have looked at projects that affect the lives of even the lowest class. “Look at these schools being built, our children used to study in shacks, but today we are building storey schools, who knew we would actually have schools like this in Zanzibar,” he said. For his part, Khalfan Salim, said that this was a major development within the isles, and as such, was the responsibility of the people to protect the projects. However, he noted building a hospital is one thing, but having equipment and experts is another thing and the government now needs to put in good infrastructure, medical equipment and experts. On the other hand, wishing the people and leaders of Zanzibar success in the celebrations, the ACT-Wazalendo Party urged the former to take steps to develop national solidarity and reconciliation as the main social and economic foundations.