South African entrepreneurs have had to come up with innovative ways to work around the energy crisis in the country, to go about their day with business as usual. Many of them are now sharing their innovative ways of solving energy problems within their companies on a platform called Sustainable Business Now. The site – an initiative of SAP, GlobeScan and Leaders on Purpose – features case studies on how leaders and their companies are tackling sustainability challenges, as well as ideas to make organisations more sustainable. The case studies share insights and replicable, scalable best practices from leading companies around the world with the purpose to help others also achieve sustainability.  ALSO READ: Companies explore projects to produce sustainable fuels and green steel production Chris Coulter, CEO of GlobeScan, said: “We are excited about this timely resource that will help the tens of thousands of companies that are beginning their sustainability journey to learn from recognised leaders.  “We have been examining global sustainability leadership for years, and with Sustainable Business Now, we have a new way of sharing more case studies and building a community to work together and drive more change at pace and scale”. There are case studies on the site from the likes of Anglo American, Natura, Ørsted and Unilever. Ida Krabek and Virginie Van de Cotte from Ørsted advised business on the path to take to net-zero carbon emissions. Unilever’s chief supply chain and business operations office, Reginaldo Ecclissato, explained how a living wage creates business value. NOW READ: ‘No shortcuts to solving SA’s energy crisis,’ say ministers There is also the likes of Jon Samuel and Mzila Mthenjane who discuss how Anglo American, Exxaro and partners designed and adapted the Colllaborative Regional Development and Impact Catalyst programmes. Global Head of Sustainability Communications at SAP, Michael McComb, said: “Transforming companies to run sustainably is challenging. Executives across industries are looking for guidance and examples of what’s working. We need to learn from each other.  “SAP is proud to support Sustainable Business Now and share these current, credible case studies that can help educate, engage and inspire business leaders so they have the confidence to accelerate their sustainable business investments.”  *Compiled by Devina Haripersad