Actress Enhle Mbali Mlotshwa is facing a mammoth lawsuit brought by a photographer for posting her own photos. The freelance photographer Cyan Haribhai alleges she took photos of Enhle at South African Fashion Week but Enhle reposted them without her permission.  Photographer Cyan Haribhai filed the lawsuit in the Johannesburg High Court after accusing the actress and fashion designer of clothing label Essie Apparel, of allegedly taking the photographer’s fashion pictures published on a fashion website, Photo Vogue, and reposting them on her Instagram account without her authorisation, the Sunday World reported. In court documents seen by  Sunday World Haribhai says she took the photographs at South African Fashion Week and posted them on her Instagram account @cyanstrange.  She alleges that Enhle took screenshots of the photographs and posted them on her own Instagram page without her permission.  Haribhai sent a lawyer’s letter to the actress which she allegedly ignored. The photographer says Enhle’s actions are copyright infringement.  Enhle Mbali told the publication she has been harassed by Haribhai by the “frivolous lawsuit” and that the photos were taken over three years ago.  The Citizen reached out to Enhle Mbali’s representative for comment and is still waiting for a response. At the end of December 2022, Enhle Mbali’s ex-husband Black Coffee accused her of making him the face of her gender-based violence campaigns.  Enhle has accused him of being abusive during their marriage.  READ NEXT:  See the Enhle Mbali post that got Black Coffee emotional about abuse allegations Reflecting on her year Enhle wrote: “It’s been a year of up and downs for us all. Lots of lessons learnt and freedoms Gained. Unspoken words and spoken errors, we have sat in our darkest [selves], to step into our light .own it !! Find comfort in our birth given [the] right to it. Leave the ego self, its death is your growth.  “We are children of the light !! so today I personally tell the darkness to kiss my apple bottom. And ready both my feet to graciously kick its donkey (can’t help my corney) as personally I step closer to my freedom and yet again start a new chapter. Another chapter of this adventure of life. Upwards and onwards… to bigger and better. To filling the pages of this life journal. To peace and peace of mind.” Compiled by Sandisiwe Mbhele