With Mamelodi Sundowns looking set to clinch yet another DStv Premiership crown, Gavin Hunt has already admitted that the rest of the teams will have to battle for second and third place in the league. Hunt’s SuperSport United have an opportunity to move to second place on Sunday when they take on rookies Richards Bay in Pretoria.  Matsatsantsa A Pitori and the Natal Rich Boys are in line to become the second team to reach the 30-point mark as they are currently sitting on 29 and 27 points respectively. ALSO READ: Mokwena still wants more as Sundowns smash top flight record The four-time league title winning mentor has lauded his opponents, but at the same time, Hunt is more focused on improving his team given how slender they have been this season as far as personnel is concerned.  United are without injured Thulani Hlatshwayo and Bradley Grobler, and they will lose Thatayone Ditlhokwe to Chiefs next season. “Richards Bay have done fantastic this season with what they have,” said Hunt.  “We have to improve on where we are. In football terms, if we took all of the chances that we created from the start of the season, we would be on top of the league. But now we all have to fight for second best,” said Hunt. Some might think he is sounding like a broken record, but Hunt has, time-and-time again, pleaded with SuperSport’s management to buy him players. However, the purse remains closed and Hunt has to make do with what he has. “It makes me become a better coach but you get to a certain point where you need more and it makes it easier if you can buy players. When I came back, I looked at the squad and I knew that we need a few if we want to play the way I want to play. We brought in a few,” said Hunt. High demand from Maseko One player who has been the livewire for The Spartans is Thapelo Maseko. However, Hunt demands a lot more from the teenager. “The only thing that is lacking in Maseko’s game is goals. Every game that he has played, he got good chances. We are still trying to define his role because we don’t have many players. He has played at left-back for us this season already. But he will get better and a lot of the younger ones will get better. ALSO READ: Folz is a better coach than Benni McCarthy, says AmaZulu boss Sandile Zungu “We will have to keep banging away and we will create more chances. The ball will be in the box a bit more but we have to score. We had two points after four games at the start of the season and we were playing better than we are playing now,” added Hunt.