Dar es Salaam. The President of Zanzibar, Dr Hussein Ally Mwinyi has outlined his administration’s accomplishments over the last two years, citing political reconciliation as key to the success. Ever since he came to power, the 56-year-old President has been at the forefront of challenging politicians in Zanzibar to firmly embrace peace and reconciliation for the benefit of the nation’s social and economic prosperity. In his address to mark 59 years of the Zanzibar Revolution—an event that led to the overthrow of the Sultan of Zanzibar on January 12, 1964, the president applauded the general public for its participation in maintaining the island’s peace and unity. “During this time, we have made significant achievements which are related to our major development plans, which include the CCM manifesto, Zanzibar Vision 2050 (ZDV50) and the Zanzibar Action Plan (ZAP),” he explained. Read: Mwinyi roots for positive attitude, pushing speedy economic transformation Dr Mwinyi insisted on his administration’s zeal to keep advocating reconciliation as well as ensuring people in the archipelago get rid of all issues that would bring back hatred and discrimination. “The prevailing peace and tranquillity in the country has brought us this far. In fact, the economic achievements that we are witnessing have been brought by such, which have been attributed to increasing investments and businesses.” According to the president, the annual economic growth for 2021 stands at an average of 5.1 percent against 1.3 percent in 2020 and maintains a single-digit inflation rate which currently stands at 5.08 percent, as well as the issuance of incentives, and indicative prices for various products. “By December last year, the government had provided at least Sh21.5 billion as an incentive to ease the hike in petroleum prices and its product as a result of the effects of the Russia-Ukraine war,” Dr Mwinyi stated. On the other hand, the island has boosted its internal revenue collection, whereby for 2021/22, the collection has increased to Sh908.6 billion which is an increase of Sh196.1 billion against 712.2 collected in the previous year. Dr Mwinyi sees the embracing of political reconciliation, which established the government of national unity as having stabilised Zanzibar. “The government has attracted more investments in the archipelago... this month, Zipa (Zanzibar Investment Promotion Authority) has registered at least 215 projects worth $3.26 billion, which will provide 13,000 direct jobs.” Besides, the president explained that the said authority has also registered other investment projects worth $377.5 million to be executed in other 16 islets, which are part of Zanzibar. “I urge all Zanzibaris to work hard so that everyone takes part in building the nation, as well as benefiting from its resources and the fruits that the Zanzibar revolution offers.” The President further noted that his administration has disbursed soft loans worth Sh16.8 billion to individuals both in Pemba and Unguja, and at least 14 entrepreneur centres worth Sh16 billion have been built in each district in the island. “While at least 2625 individuals have benefited from the soft loans, 6800 small businesses will have permanent structures for conducting their businesses,” he observed.