TS Galaxy are one of the two DStv Premiership sides that managed to land a blow on defending champions Mamelodi Sundowns this season when they beat them 1-0 about five months ago. ALSO READ: Chiefs coach expects more from Sithebe after Sundowns impactCrosstown rivals, SuperSport United, also put a dent on Downs’ well-oiled machine with a 2-1 win this past September.However, Sundowns head coach, Rulani Mokwena, insists that his side are not going into their league tie against Galaxy baying for blood in spiteful revenge. The Rockets host Bafana Ba Style this evening at the Mbombela Stadium. Kick-off is at 7.30pm. Mokwena says he left no stone unturned in preparing for this tie as they look to win their 13th league game on the trot. “They are a difficult team, they are a well coached side. I watched their last game and we can see why they beat us in the first round. We now know what we have to do.  “We are not motivated by revenge because that comes from a very dark place. We are motivated by wanting to win every single game and that is what we will try to do,” said Mokwena. ALSO READ: Monare set to land new Orlando Pirates deal While the demand for consistent performances is at an all-time high for Sundowns players, Mokwena has taken some time to appreciate the “hard work” that his squad have put in so far this season. “What is important is that I am very proud of the players. They work very hard and it is not easy to do what they are doing, even though I am a coach who demands more, there is always a sense of pride towards them for the hard work and everything that they invest,” said the Downs mentor.‘Chiefs will get better’ – Meanwhile, Sundowns rivals, Kaizer Chiefs are bearing the brunt of poor form as they are yet to register a win or score a goal this year. Chiefs lost all three games in this year but Mokwena believes that Amakhosi will eventually come right under coach Arthur Zwane. “I’ve spoken a lot about Chiefs and I have given a lot of praise. It is not undue praise and I still say that Chiefs play very well. Their performance against AmaZulu was good.  “They played well against Sekhukhune and Golden Arrows. These reflect a good side and with a coach that the club knows and he knows the club’s history and legacy,” said Mokwena.