Despite Prince Harry and his wife Meghan Markle stepping back as senior royals in January 2020, the couple is still very much in the spotlight, and on the front pages of the world’s tabloid newspapers. This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. This is a modal window. This modal can be closed by pressing the Escape key or activating the close button. The Duke and Duchess of Sussex, who cited privacy as one of the reasons for them stepping down as working royals, has given some controversial interviews since leaving the United Kingdom and moving to California. In his latest interview, Prince Harry sat down with American broadcast journalist Anderson Cooper on his show 60 minutesto discuss some of the shocking claims made by the prince in his memoir, Spare, which is set to be released on Tuesday, 10 January 2023. During the interview, which aired on Sunday, 8 January, Prince Harry said that he has tried to keep his conversations with the British royal family private, but to combat stories in the tabloids, he has been forced to make his concerns public. ALSO SEE: EFF slams Harry for ‘boastful’ claims to have killed 25 in Afghanistan Prince Harry’s rift with his brother, Prince William, started at a young age. He told Cooper that he loves his brother dearly, but that there has been a lot of pain between them, especially during the last six years. The Duke of Sussex also made it clear that he wanted to squash the idea that his wife, Meghan Markle, is responsible for destroying the relationship between him and his brother. This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. This is a modal window. This modal can be closed by pressing the Escape key or activating the close button. During the interview, the Duke of Sussex recalled how excited he was to attend the same high school as his brother, but the feeling didn’t last long as William told him to pretend that they don’t know each other when they are at school. Harry said that he was really hurt by that and, at the time, he couldn’t make sense of it. ALSO SEE: Prince Harry’s memoir described as an ‘idiotic’ decision While the world wept when news of Princes Diana’s death was made public, her 12-year-old son at the time – Prince Harry, didn’t shed a single tear. “I never shed a single tear at that point. I was in shock,” Harry told Cooper. He explained how his father shared the news of his mother’s death with him, barely showing any emotion or affection, apart from patting Harry’s knee. Prince Harry also speaks about feeling guilty the day before his mother’s funeral when him and William were greeting mourners outside Kensington Palace in London. Harry said he felt guilty about the fact that the people they were meeting were showing more emotion than they were showing, “maybe more emotion than we even felt”. This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. This is a modal window. This modal can be closed by pressing the Escape key or activating the close button. Harry said the first time he cried was when his mother’s coffin actually went into the ground, adding that was the only time he ever cried about Princess Diana’s death. One of the most shocking revelations of Prince Harry’s 60 Minutes interview was that he thought his mother faked her own death until he was 23-years-old and visited Paris for the first time. During his time in Paris, Prince Harry visited the tunnel where Princes Diana was killed in a car accident. “I wanted to see whether it was possible driving at the speed that Henri Paul was driving, that you could lose control of a car and plow into a pillar killing almost everybody in that car. I need to take this journey. I need to ride the same route…” he told Cooper. This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. This is a modal window. This modal can be closed by pressing the Escape key or activating the close button.