After two comfortable weeks in the Big Brother house, the first two housemates have been evicted from #BBTitans losing out on their chance to take home the R1.7 million (USD $100 000) prize.  Sandra and Theo Traw were the first to be voted out of Biggie’s house after operating under the nickname Santheo this past week. The pair had been up for eviction against Juicy Jay and Olivia (Juiovla), Justin and Yvonne (Juvone) and Yemi Cregx and Nelisa (Yelisa). The pair were evicted in the usual style of the #BBTitans live show where they spoke to Big Brother Titans co-host Lawrence Maleka after being booted out of the competition.  A visibly distraught Theo said: “I’m just lost for words. I wanted to stay a little longer, to help myself more. But God had other plans, so it’s all good”. An upbeat Sandra – who described herself as “always fire” – told Lawrence she also wasn’t expecting to leave so soon.  When asked if the other women in the house had been threatened by her, she said: “Definitely. I was stepping on toes and cracking necks”.  The new pairs were part of a twist where housemates had to form duos before taking part in last week’s Head of House games – and then nominated for eviction as a duo.  The winners of last week’s HoH title were Blaqboi and Ipeleng (Blaqleng).  ALSO READ: Drama galore in first week of ‘Big Brother Titans’ “They oversaw a dramatic week that included housemates getting into heated rivalries and arguments, with the bleep censor working overtime for the recap episodes.” “Luckily, the tension had simmered down by the time they had to work together for the week’s wager – which they won, a welcome change from losing the previous week.” After co-host Ebuka Obi-Uchendu asked if the fights meant the joint HoH didn’t have control of their house, Blaqboi said: “We’re beginning to express ourselves more, [so] whatever happened this last week will keep on happening”. Earlier in the week, Ipeleng had said fellow female housemates were giving her “attitude” since she became HoH.  When Ebuka pressed her on it during SUnday’s live eviction show, she played coy, saying: “What I will say is that it kind of changed the whole mood. I felt isolated at some point”. But she refused to name names because she was “playing it safe”.  Before Sunday’s eviction tension, the housemates had danced their worries away in a warrior-themed Saturday night party helmed by Naija’s DJ Xclusive. “That didn’t mean it was all fun and games – there was also saucy romance, salacious gossip and a bit of heartbreak,” said DStv in a statement.  With 22 housemates left, who will make it all the way to day 78?  Big Brother Titans airs live, 24/7 on DStv Channel 198 and GOtv Channel 29.  It is also streaming on Showmax in more than 50 territories, including the United Kingdom and New Zealand. Compiled by Kaunda Selisho READ NEXT: ‘Big Brother Titans’ praised for diverse representation of housemates