In it’s second high profile new vehicle launch at the Delhi Auto Expo after the five-door Jimny, Suzuki has taken the wraps off of the all-new Fronx known until now as the Baleno Cross. Known during development as YTB, the Fronx is the latest result of Maruti Suzuki’s partnership with Toyota as it rides on the same Heartect platform as the Baleno, which provides the base for the Starlet known as the Glanza in India. This will eventually lead to the unveiling of the Taisor reports have alleged will replace the Urban Cruiser after Toyota’s confirmation in November last year that it won’t renewing the nameplate for a second generation based on the Brezza that succeeded the Vitara Brezza four months before. Styled to resemble the Grand Vitara at the front, the Fronx completely differs from the C-pillar back as it sports a distinctive coupe-like design and rounded rear facia with model specific taillights, a prominent satin silver faux rear skidplate and squared-off bumper flanks. ALSO READ: Suzuki and Toyota partnership set to expand with Taigo rival Suzuki, and indeed Toyota’s potential rival for the Volkswagen Nivus/Taigo, the Fronx adheres to India’s sub-four metre regulations as it measures 3 995 mm in overall length while standing 1 550 mm tall and measuring 1 765 mm wide. Riding on a 2 520 mm long wheelbase, the more compact, than the Baleno, looking Fronx is almost unchanged from its sibling inside as it receives the same dashboard, India market specific two-tone colour finish, steering wheel and instrument cluster. While specification wasn’t announced, the showcased Fronx likely represents the top-spec Alpha trim grade at it came equipped with the bigger nine-inch touchscreen infotainment system, 360-degree surround-view camera system, push-button start, Head-Up Display and wireless smartphone charger, items all standard on the South African-market Baleno GLX. On the power front, Suzuki has opted for two petrol engine options with one offering mild-hybrid assistance, but neither with any input from Toyota as with the Grand Vitara and Urban Cruiser Hyryder. As the base unit, the normally aspirated 1.2-litre DualJet K12B carries over unchanged from the Baleno and Glanza with outputs of 67kW/113Nm.  Mated to it is a five-speed manual gearbox or an optional five-speed automated manual known in Suzuki-speak as Auto Gear Shift (AGS). The biggest addition though is the return of turbocharging and specifically, the 1.0-litre Boosterjet engine that departed from the Baleno range six years ago. In the Fronx, the hybrid assisted three-cylinder delivers 74kW/148Nm transferred to the front wheels through either a five-speed manual or a six-speed automatic gearbox with paddle shifters.  Unlike the Grand Vitara, the Fronx won’t be available with all-wheel-drive with the same set to apply to the Taisor. Going on-sale in India from April with order books now open, no pricing details for the Suzuki Fronx emerged from Delhi, with the same being true of its confirmation for South Africa. However, should approval be given, expect it to become available later this year possibly after the local introduction of the Grand Vitara slated for early 2023. Additional information from gaadiwaadi.com and cartorq.com.