Orlando Pirates midfielder Migue Timm says being a Pirates player comes with a huge responsibility and they will do anything to make sure that they accomplish their goals. ALSO READ: Khune puts on brave face, seeks to inspire Chiefs against Downs According to Timm, Pirates have a pool of players that are very talented and it is not a surprise that they won the MTN8. The Buccaneers have lost their first two games since the resumption of the DStv Premiership, but they managed to win their last game against Golden Arrows last weekend with a spirited performance that saw them score two goals in stoppage time. Bucs have another game on Sunday against Stellenbosch FC at the Orlando Stadium and Timm says they have to make sure that they register maximum points again. “We are building and I think that we have a very good squad that is full of quality, I mean, that is why we managed to win the MTN8. It is not by fluke, we are hard workers and we know what we want. I know that we have not been consistent in terms of results, but we are going to be okay. It is a process, and it will be alright because we know what we are doing,” said the midfielder. “The game against Arrows was a reflection of what we can do, we are fighters and we know that we have to be there for each other every single time. Scoring two goals in the last moments of the match says a lot about the type of players that we are. We don’t give up, we fight to the finish. Going to the Stellenbosch game now we have to make sure that we keep the consistency of winning.” Timm also added that the league is unpredictable and no one can write any team off. “Look, I think anyone can beat anyone in our league, you can’t go to a game and think that you will win easily. You have to fight for results, there are no longer small or big teams. You have to respect any opponent and that is what we always do at Pirates.” The Buccaneers are fifth in the league standings with 22 points after 16 games, while Stellies are in 13th spot having registered 17 points from the same number of games as Bucs.