Morogoro. Champions Yanga beat Mtibwa Sugar 1-0 on New Year's Eve  bolster their lead at the top of the NBC Premier League. The win made sure that Yanga ushers in the new year with a Six point differences from their arch-rivals Simba SC who on Friday thrashed hapless Prisons 7-1. A single goal from Stephane Aziz K was enough for visiting Yanga to seal the points and raise their total to 50 from 19 matches. Midfielder Stephane Aziz Ki scored from a free kick in the 26th minute, a goal that stood until the final minute despite Mtibwa Sugar’s efforts to equalise. Azam FC, who were scheduled to play Mbeya City at Azam Complex yesterday night, were third with 37 points.Mtibwa Sugar dropped to eighth place in the league standings with 24 points after 19 matches. Despite the defeat, Mtibwa Sugar played well in the game, creating numerous scoring chances that thieir forwards squandered. Yanga, the defending champions, were forced to play the game without key players Khalid Aucho, Bernard Morrison, and Yannick Bangala due to technology concerns while Feisal Salum, alias Fei Toto, who wants to leave the club, did not play. In the meantime, the league continues today with Coastal Union visiting Namungo FC at Mkwakwani Stadium. The match is set to begin at 4 p.m., with each side hoping to improve their status in the league standing. Namungo FC are ranked fifth in the league log with 25 points from 18 games, while Coastal Union are ranked 14th with 16 points from 18 games. Despite the fact that Namungo FC are arguably the superior club, Coastal Union interim head coach Joseph Lazaro believes his players are in fine shape and are confident of a positive outcome in the encounter. “We are continuing to polish our players, as we need to record victory in the remaining matches in order to strengthen our prospects in the standings. We’re up against a tough club, but our players are upbeat and ready for the game,” he said. He added that the players have committed not to make the same mistakes that led to a 3-3 tie against Polisi Tanzania in an away game. “We need to display our prowess in the clash in order to acquire all the three points in the contest. I feel my guys are highly committed, and we must continue to win the remaining Mainland Premier League matches,” he stated. Namungo FC coach Dennis Kitambi stated that his team was taking the match seriously and that their primary goal is to perform well. “It is likely to be the toughest match due to the level of the two squads. However, my guys are in high spirits and ready to prove their dedication in the match,” Kitambi remarked