The Sharks were not nearly accurate or disciplined enough at The Stoop as Harlequins notched a convincing 39-29 victory in their highly-entertaining Champions Cup match on Saturday afternoon, placing their hopes of hosting their round-of-16 playoff at home in doubt, until they scored their fourth try in the 78th minute for a crucial bonus point. With the match already lost and time running out to secure any bonus points, replacement scrumhalf Grant Williams took a quick-tap penalty and sprinted away, putting the Sharks deep in the Harlequins 22. Replacement loose forward Sikhumbuzo Notshe provided fantastic support and then the ball went wide, where fullback Aphelele Fassi fought his way through three defenders to score the crucial try. If the Sharks are honest with themselves, however, they shot themselves in the foot in this match. As well as Harlequins played – and they were dazzling at times – the Sharks made it easier for them by conceding a host of penalties and turnovers. The Sharks started well with a try in just the second minute as they found a bit of space out wide, Fassi’s little chip ahead was snaffled by wing Thaakir Abrahams and he passed inside for centre Lukhanyo Am to score. But their ill-discipline then saw them concede soft penalties soon after the next two restarts, placing themselves under pressure as Harlequins scored twice, scrumhalf Danny Care dummying and sniping over from close range and then eighthman Alex Dombrandt going over after a fine break by fullback Nick David. The power of the Sharks was successfully nullified by the sheer pace at which Harlequins played, whisking the ball away from the rucks with breakneck speed, while one also has to salute the home team’s forwards for holding their own in the collisions. Read more: Sharks want to ramp up intensity as Quins come roaring at them On the Sharks’ own ball, Quins loose forward Will Evans was an absolute menace as he produced a commanding performance of openside play. Harlequins scored again in the 18th minute, after the Sharks conceded back-to-back penalties and slick hands and short passes allowed Cadan Murley plenty of space to score, putting the home side 21-8 up. The Sharks showed they weren’t finished yet though as they went into the break just 22-24 down as they scored two more tries. A wonderfully powerful break by wing Marnus Potgieter from his own half allowed scrumhalf Jaden Hendrikse to show his pace and get over in the corner, and then lock Eben Etzebeth, who was not his usual dominant self on the gainline but did many other good things, showed his rugby smarts for the next try. He had already pickpocketed Care once at the base of a ruck but knocked-on in picking up the ball, but in the 38th minute, he spotted that prop Joe Marler was not properly bound and Care had his hands on the ball, so he came from an onsides position, stole the ball and raced away for the try. Harlequins produced a compelling response in the third quarter. Hendrikse conceded a soft penalty for obstruction and then prop Thomas du Toit was turned over when the Sharks did get the ball back. From the resulting lineout, former KZN lock Stephan Lewies came straight through the potent maul to score. The match was still in the balance with Quins leading 29-22, but a brilliant individual try by David settled the outcome. Dynamic throughout, the fullback gathered a stab ahead by Abrahams – a poor decision by the wing after he had twinkle-toed into the Harlequins 22 – and counter-attacked, before he produced the perfect grubber to himself to complete an eloquent justification for his man of the match award. Scorers Harlequins – Tries: Danny Care, Alex Dombrandt, Cadan Murley, Stephan Lewies, Nick David. Conversions: Marcus Smith (4). Penalties: Smith (2). Sharks – Tries: Lukhanyo Am, Jaden Hendrikse, Eben Etzebeth, Aphelele Fassi. Conversions: Curwin Bosch (3). Penalty: Bosch. Read more: Bosch back at 10 as Sharks make five changes for date with Harlequins