There was happiness, stress and drama as pupils went to school on Wednesday – some for the first time and others who are old hands. Connie Mokoena from Soshanguve accompanied her children Obakeng and Gonste to Lowe Primary School in Ga-Rankuwa, north of Pretoria, who were starting Grades 4 and 3. Mokoena said she was pleased with the proceedings of the first day at school. ALSO READ: Overcrowding in public schools has become a national problem, says Motshekga “We managed to find space. The only problem we had was with some particular documents but everyone here at school was quite helpful – the administration and the principal as well. I am quite happy,” she said. Despite its glitches at first, parents then warmed up to the new Gauteng education department system but others did struggle, especially with the system choosing schools for parents against their wishes, which reflected there was still much work to be done. A parent, Nombuyiselo Mthembu from Vosloorus, said it was an exciting day for her as her two children started new grades. Both her children attended Zimele Primary School with her daughter starting Grade 1 and her son on Grade 4. ALSO READ: Over 290 000 Grade 1 and 8 pupils already placed in schools – Gauteng Education Mthembu said she was happy with her kids attending schools around the place she resided. “As a local resident, I have not encountered any issues when I applied around August and September last year and everything went well,” she said. “With my son already attending at the primary school, I decided to apply for my little one there, as well. “The reason I am happy with my kids attending school around my area is that as a single parent I cannot afford to take my kids to another school outside Vosloorus. This is a good school for them. On Monday, parents were told to fetch their children’s stationery so my daughter is ready to start Grade 1.” Mthembu added the only thing she struggled with was buying school uniforms, but noted “there was no other way”. However, Zodwa Hlatshwayo, also of Vosloorus, did not share the same sentiments. Hlatshwayo said she was at ease now that her daughter Bongekile would finally start Grade 8 at the school she wanted for her, despite the “draining and difficult” process they had to endure. Hlatshwayo said it has been a stressful journey. “As my child has been attending school in Germiston, the online admission process made it difficult to find a school around the area because we do not live in that area. The system is probably trying to make is easier for others to find schools in their areas where they live but it also makes it hard for us who have children that attend in other areas,” she said. “I do not understand why parents should go through that trouble because when a child attends a primary school in that area for seven years, then when they are supposed to go high school, things now have to change.” “The child needs to be able to attend the school in the area they are familiar with and continue with the subjects they have done in primary school. The change of schools and change of languages does not make sense.” Hlatshwayo said the system of primary schools being feeders for particular high schools should continue. “The previous arrangement worked well as a child would apply to high schools, then gets accepted by one or two. They then choose which school they prefer. “I feel they should find a way that will accommodate everyone, be suitable and user-friendly for parents be able to access school which benefits them.” The Gauteng department of education (GDE) revealed it registered 290 757 (99.52%) pupils in Grades 1 and 8, while unplaced applicants sat at 0.48% (1 394 pupils), ahead of the start of the school year. Early last year, GDE introduced an online admission applications system which appears to have successfully processed most applicants. NOW READ: 24 Gauteng schools vandalised during December holidays – lungas@citizen.co.za