What’s the bet the orchestra plays the William Tell Overture by Rossini during the concert – either at the very beginning or as an encore? There are short odds on Les Toreadors from George Bizet’s opera Carmen and Ride of the Valkyries by Richard Wagner being on the playlist, too. In case you think you’ve strayed into the arts and entertainment section, relax, we’re talking about the Cape Philharmonic Orchestra performing at Saturday’s Kenilworth Racecourse – sharing top of the bill with the Tattersalls Jamaica Handicap, a Listed event for fillies and mares over 2000m. The abovementioned ditties are inevitably trotted out when there’s a horse theme around. And welcome they will be, too, in a departure from the screechy singers and DJs that are foisted upon racegoers in the desperate hope of attracting a “younger” clientele. Classical musos will treat punters’ ears with (hopefully) Mozart’s Marriage of Figaro – said by some to be the finest piece of music yet written. The Philharmonians will surely slip in some modern numbers; possibly Horse With No Name by America or any song called Wild Horses, a title coined by a welter of different people – from the Rolling Stones to La Belle. With the main race being the Jamaica – named after a giant chestnut mare of great galloping feats a couple of decades ago – there’s a fair chance of Jamaican Farewell – made famous by Harry Belafonte and regarded by some as the best pop song ever. Of the Jamaica runners, well-fancied Time Flies and Do Angels Cry are possibly named after musical creations; by Vaya Con Dios and Drake in the first instance, and the late British neo-soul crooner Lynden David Hall in the second. But punters and musical arrangers should not rule out Young Love, from the Andre Nel stable with Ryan Munger in the saddle. Young Love is also a ubiquitous name in the world of lyrics – from the 1950s rockabilly sounds of Ric Cartey to the modern country tones of Kip Moore. The four-year-old filly in question could offer some value and strike the right note in her peak run.