With scoring proving to be one of the factors delaying Kaizer Chiefs progress, coach Arthur Zwane is hoping new striker Christian Basomboli will be the answer. ALSO READ: Mvala and Mbule to get new roles at Sundowns? Chiefs have had scoring problems since parting ways with all of their offensive players last season including strikers Samir Nurkovic and Leonardo Castro.  The likes of Bernard Parker, Dumisani Zuma and Lebogang Manyama were also let go at the end of last term. This left the Naturena side thin on arsenal up front. They signed Ashley Du Preez from Stellenbosch but he is yet to prove his worth at Chiefs.  Caleb Bimenyimana was then also brought in a few weeks into the start of the season. And the lanky Burundian didn’t take too long to endear himself to the Chiefs supporters. But an injury disrupted his form and since his return he has struggled to get back to scoring ways and the goals have dried up for Zwane’s side. “We expect Christian to come in and hit the ground running,” said Zwane after the 1-0 loss to Mamelodi Sundowns at the weekend.  Zwane is however cautious not to put the Congolese striker under too much pressure saying he expects other players to chip in with goals from time to time.“But also we don’t want to put him under pressure. There are many other players who can take that responsibility (for goals). “That’s why I’m saying it’s about hitting the target. It’s not that we don’t get to the final third. I was going to be very worried if we weren’t creating chances.”  Chiefs missed a number of good chances in the game against Sundowns especially in the second half and Zwane was not impressed.  “In the second half how many times did we get into the final third or even close, like six metres, where you’d think the player should just poke the ball (into the net).  “But we didn’t do that. We need a bit of composure,” added Zwane. Zwane will be hoping that Basamboli will provide the answers in the next match.  It is expected that Basamboli will make the team when Chiefs host Royal AM in a DStv Premiership match at Peter Mokaba Stadium on Sunday.