Here’s your morning news update: An easy-to-read selection of our top stories. Stay up to date with The Citizen – More News, Your Way. With growing calls for President Cyril Ramaphosa to reshuffle his Cabinet following his re-election as ANC leader, the governing party’s top seven officials say they will respect whatever decision Ramaphosa takes relating to his national executive. ANC secretary-general Fikile Mbalula, along with the party’s first deputy secretary-general Nomvula Mokonyane and second deputy secretary-general Maropene Ramokgopa, briefed the media in Johannesburg, on Tuesday, on the state of readiness for the party’s upcoming events. The looming Cabinet reshuffle was among the questions asked by journalists now that Ramaphosa received a fresh mandate from ANC branches to lead the party after his re-election for a second term at the ANC’s 55th national conference in December. The African National Congress (ANC) says it’s all systems go for the resumption of its 55th national conference this week. ANC secretary-general Fikile Mbalula briefed the media in Johannesburg on Tuesday, on the state of readiness for the governing party’s upcoming events. The ANC is set to continue its national conference on Thursday, through virtual platforms after it was adjourned on 20 December due to logistical issues. Wayne Duvenage, the CEO of the Organisation Undoing Tax Abuse (Outa), said he is not surprised the deactivation of e-tolls has been postponed, but he added there is no good reason for government’s delay. The deadline for the deactivation was 31 December 2022. The gantries, however, are still active. Gauteng Premier Panyaza Lesufi said the delay was “due to the need to finalise key components of the MOU between the national government and the provincial government”. In November, it was announced that Gauteng was expected to contribute 30% of the R43 billion that Treasury needed to decommission e-tolls. This means that Gauteng would have to pay R12.9 billion. It’s been just over a year since a fire gutted parts of Parliament although repairs are yet to begin. The 2 January blaze left the National Assembly and the Old Assembly wing severely damaged prompting Members of Parliament (MPs) to hold their sessions at the Cape Town City Hall. Speaking to eNCA on Tuesday, National Assembly Speaker Nosiviwe Mapisa-Nqakula noted that much progress has been made since the fire gutted the buildings after the National Health and Allied Workers Union (Nehawu) expressed concern about delays in finalising the report into the fire.  Prince Harry sees “no willingness to reconcile” in a palace rift where leaks portray him and his wife Meghan as villains, according to interview extracts released Monday. Harry, 38, said he would nonetheless like to get back his father King Charles III and brother William, heir to the British throne, according to extracts from a television interview to be aired Sunday, days before the prince’s memoirs are published. Harry and Meghan, 41, lifted the lid on their experiences in the British royal family in a Netflix docuseries last month about the reasons behind their stunning 2020 departure for North America. This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. This is a modal window. This modal can be closed by pressing the Escape key or activating the close button. Springbok and World Cup-winning captain Siya Kolisi will play for French club Racing 92 after the World Cup in France later this year. This was confirmed by the player, the Sharks and Racing 92 early on Tuesday. Kolisi, who led the Boks to World Cup glory in 2019 in Japan, will be granted an early release from his Sharks contract. Kolisi joined the Durban-based team in 2021 after initially playing at the Stormers. This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. This is a modal window. This modal can be closed by pressing the Escape key or activating the close button.