Mamelodi Sundowns head coach Rulani Mokwena has refuted suggestions the DStv Premiership title race is done and dusted, even though the five-time reigning champions are on an eight-game winning streak and sit seven points clear at the top of the table. ALSO READ: Pirates need to shape up with tricking fixtures ahead It is hard to see anyone catching Masandawana, and Swallows FC coach Ernst Middendorp basically declared Sundowns champions after watching his Birds side beaten 2-0 at Loftus Stadium on Tuesday. “I have big respect for coach Ernst and his opinions, but it is too early to say the league is wrapped up,” said Mokwena. “No league is ever won in January. This was an important win against a very difficult team.” Swallows are struggling at the wrong end of the table but tested Sundowns in the first half, Kwanda Mngonyama drawing a brilliant save from Ronwen Williams. Williams has been brilliant as Sundowns have won all four league games without conceding a goal since Mokwena became solo head coach. “Ronwen has been extremely consistent, but they say a good boxer needs a good sparring partner and he has exceptional ‘keepers around him,” added Mokwena. “Denis Onyango is exceptional, Kennedy Mweene is exceptional, Riyaad Pieterse is exceptional, and Jody February. We also have our goalkeeping department, led by Wendell Robinson, who is a former professional football and an extremely talented football coach all round. When you have all that it is not all about Ronza (Williams), though he has improved his game tremendously. Tactically he is at a very good level, his communication skills are very important for how he wants to play, and his bravery to take a few risks. “That was not so evident today, but we saw it against Pirates (Sundowns beat the Buccaneers 2-0 on Friday). He just needs to keep his feet on the ground, and keep working.” Mokwena also had words of advice for Cassius Mailula, Sundowns’ young striker, who came into the Swallows game with four goals in his past three matches. The 21 year-old did not find the net against the Birds, but he did lay on a fine assist for Themba Zwane to fire in Sundowns’ second. “Offensive players can only improve through experience. Young players, who play in the defensive line or midfield can get better in trainin, simulating situations … (but) players like Cassius can only get better on the pitch. You can’t simulate pressure situations (for strikers) where they have scored in a previous game, and in the next one they don’t.” Mokwena, meanwhile, also gave an update on the injury situation of leading goalscorer Peter Shalulile, who is back in full training but has still not featured against Pirates or Swallows. “He is ready from my perspective but I have to trust my medical department, their advice is far more important than mine and they have advised that we tread cautiously,” added Mokwena. “But I don’t think he is far off, because of the specimen that he is.”