Gauteng residents have been warned to brace for another week of scorching temperatures and extreme heat with the mercury expected to spike significantly. Regional weather service, Gauteng Weather, has forecasted temperatures in the thirties with low chances of any rain for the province. Temperatures in Johannesburg start of at a minimum of 15°C becoming very hot and reaching a high of 32°C on Tuesday. Pretoria is expected to be hot with scorching temperatures. Temperatures in the city is expected to start at a minimum of 18°C on Monday, and hitting a peak of 34°C on Wednesday, with the possibility of some rain. ⚠️ALERT: MORE HEAT????PERSISTENT HEAT????Monday????16|32°CTuesday????16|32°CWed????15|32°C☂️20%Thursday⛅️17|31°C☂️26%Friday⛅️18|31°C☂️29%#JHBWeather????PERSISTENT HEAT????Monday????18|34°CTuesday????18|34°CWednesday????17|34°C☂️20%Thursday⛅️19|33°C☂️27%Friday⛅️20|33°C☂️30%#PTAWeather— Gauteng Weather (@tWeatherSA) January 15, 2023 The South African Weather Service (SAWS) has also forecast heatwave conditions in other parts of the country. “A heat wave with persistently high temperatures is expected over Northern Cape, except the Kamiesberg and Richtersveld local municipalities, over Free State except in the north – east until Monday and over north-eastern parts of Eastern Cape until Wednesday.” “Extremely hot and uncomfortable conditions are expected over the Khai-Ma municipality of Northern Cape as well as the Oudtshoorn and Prince Albert municipalities of Western Cape,” it said. According to a SAWS, when temperatures are extremely high, our ability to cool our bodies through sweating is reduced, and this can lead to dehydration and heat stroke. It is advised affected people to avoid going into the sun, especially between 12pm and 3pm, to avoid strenuous activities or working outside and to keep hydrated. The hot weather is also likely to put pressure on the electricity grid as people use various appliances, including aircons, to keep cool. Eskom is currently imposing stage 6 load shedding on the country for the past two week. Meanwhile, Johannesburg Emergency Services Robert Mulaudzi has urged residents to precaution during the extreme hot temperature conditions. “Residents are urged to stay hydrated, drink lots of water, avoid direct sunlight especially between 11am and 3pm. Those who are working under direct sunlight must take regulars break so that we can prevent situations of heat exhaustion and heat cramps which may lead to heat stroke.” “From our side as the City of Johannesburg Emergency Management Services, we remain on high alert so that we can respond to any emergencies that might occur throughout the City of Johannesburg,” Mulaudzi said. ALSO READ: What to eat and drink during a heatwave