The Special Investigating Unit (SIU) has received the greenlight to freeze luxury properties linked to fraud and corruption at the National Lotteries Commission (NLC). The SIU, together with the National Prosecuting Authority’s Asset Forfeiture Unit (AFU), have obtained a preservation order from Pretoria High Court to seize the properties which include three luxury properties, a plot, and a portion of a farm. The properties include Kwaito legend Arthur Mafokate’s luxury property in Midrand, as well as a Cape Town property belonging to former NLC legal representative Lesley Ramulifho. They were bought using grant money from the NLC meant for community development projects, according to the SIU. “The SIU investigations revealed that the acquisition of the preserved properties was funded by the NPOs with money they had received, under the auspices of grant funding, from the NLC. ALSO READ: Lottery corruption: Preservation order granted for luxury homes, cars, restaurants worth R22m “The properties, therefore, constitute proceeds of unlawful activities hence the application for a preservation order pending the final determination of the application for final forfeiture,” SIU spokesperson Kaizer Kganyago said in a statement on Friday. Kganyago revealed that five non-profit organisations (NPOs) – including Mafokate’s South African Art and Development Association (SAADA) – received funding of approximately R56 million for the projects. SAADA had applied for grant funding to assist unemployed youth in the poor and rural areas. •Ramulifho Family Trust represented by Lesley Ramulifho (Former NLC legal representative and Trustee)Preservation: Luxury property in Cape Town pic.twitter.com/i8gFIgGtSE— Special Investigating Unit (SIU) (@RSASIU) January 13, 2023 The other NPOs include Taung Cultural Music and Arts Expo, Dinosys, Matieni Community Centre, and Zibsicraft. “Dinosys applied to the NLC for grant funding to assist with social hygiene in the Eastern Cape while Matieni Community Centre applied for grant funding for home-based care in Mpumalanga,” Kganyago continued. “[Furthermore], Zibsicraft applied for grant funding for the purpose of community development in the Northern Cape while Taung Cultural Music and Arts Expo applied for grant funding to the NLC for the purpose of building a museum and library in Kuruman, Northern Cape.” In addition, the SIU froze former NLC boss Alfred Nevhutanda’s plot in Pretoria, former NLC board member William Huma’s farm in Rustenburg and NLC legal division head Tsietsi Maselwa’s luxury property in Pretoria. Last year, the SIU also obtained a preservation order for properties linked to renowned actress Terry Pheto and former national lotteries executives. NOW READ: ‘I hold the law in high regard’– Terry Pheto to cooperate with authorities