The SA20 competition, which gets going in Cape Town on Tuesday, have confirmed exciting additions to their playing format for the inaugural season.  In an innovative move to level the playing field, each captain can nominate 13 players to take the field before the toss. After the toss, each captain can select their final playing XI and the remainder of the players will automatically become substitute players. ALSO READ: Who, where and when: Everything you need to know about SA20 In an effort to encourage attacking cricket, the winning team will be awarded four points for a win, with an additional bonus point up for grabs for a team that achieves a run rate of 1.25 times that of their opposition.  In the case of a no result, both teams will be awarded two points. In addition, the following rules have been adjusted for SA20: The pace of play will be protected without suspensions, with captains charged with in-game penalties for slow over-rates through fielding restrictions. There has been an amendment to the free-hit rule; a bowled dismissal can’t lead to byes if the ball ricochets off the stumps. No runs can be taken off an intentional attempt to run out the batter if a direct hit deflects off the stumps. There will be two strategic time-outs of 2 minutes 30 seconds in duration in each innings. The time-outs are to allow the teams to re-group tactically. Six powerplay overs will be implemented where only two fielders will be allowed outside the 30-yard circle. ALSO READ: Royals’ Shamsi excited about opener against SA20’s ‘PSG’ In the event of teams finishing on equal points, the right to progress through to the final and those to play in the play-off will be determined as follows: • the team with the most number of wins; • If still equal, the team with the highest number of bonus points; • If still equal, the team with the highest net run rate; • If still equal, the team with the most number of wins over the other team(s) who are equal on points and have the same number of wins; • If still equal, the team with the highest runs to wickets ratio throughout the tournament; • If still equal, the team with the highest wickets to runs ratio throughout the tournament. In a match declared as a No Result, run rate is not applicable. The first semi-final will include the team finishing top of the group stages against the team finishing fourth. The second semi-final will be between the teams finishing second and third respectively. The winners of the two semi-finals will contest the final.