Dar es Salaam. The government said yesterday that it was eyeing long-term plans to address inflationary pressures of food commodities as well as the food security fears that loom globally. The plans include heavy investments in the domestic supply of agricultural inputs particularly fertilizer and engaging with the private sector for strategic partnerships. Briefing journalists in Dar es Salaam yesterday, the Minister for Agriculture, Mr Hussein Bashe said with the Ukraine war, the government was now doing everything possible to address the food inflation pressures once and for all. “The war in Ukraine has affected us because of our huge importation of agricultural inputs,” he said. With 400,000 to 600,000 tons of demand, Tanzania imports over 70 percent of its fertilizer to meet its needs.  “In September the President will launch a fertilizer factory with a capacity to produce one million metric tons, which will help in ending shortage fears,” said Mr Bashe who was in the company of the director of Presidential Communications, Ms Zuhura Yunus at the State House in Dar es Salaam. The briefing was specifically meant to update the nation on President Hassan’s recent visits to Davos in Switzerland and Dakar in Senegal. Speaking during the event, Ms Yunus said President Samia Suluhu Hassan had also met with Moroccan state-owned fertilizer producer The OCP Group for talks to establish another plant in Tanzania. The company is also a phosphate rock miner and phosphoric acid manufacturer that will cater to domestic demand as well as other Sadc members. “Talks with this manufacturer are still ongoing and we hope that when completed then Tanzania will benefit significantly,” she said. On fertilizer, she also revealed that the President held a discussion with Yara International, a Norwegian chemical company that produces, distributes, and sells nitrogen-based mineral fertilizers and related industrial products. “According to their discussion with the President, if some recommendations on power availability are met then we may - in the future - see the establishment of a fertilizer plant with a capacity of 300,000 tons,” said Yunus. Irrigation The government has also expressed commitment in the current fiscal year to encourage irrigation farming. According to Mr Bashe, the government targets that by 2030, half (50 percent) of all farming activities be under the irrigation system. “This will help us achieve the 10 percent growth rate target for the sector and facilitate a double-digit contribution to the Gross Domestic Product (GDP),” he said. He said the government will complement the irrigation schemes with infrastructure that connects production and processing sites. “It’s with the government’s plans to remove the country’s import dependency on agricultural inputs from foreign markets,” he said. Block farming President Hassan is also scheduled to launch block farming initiatives for Tanzanian youth in Dodoma. Nearly 11,453 acres located in the villages of Mlazo and Ndogoe in Chamwino District, in Dodoma, have been identified as ideal for the block farming model and will simultaneously benefit youth farmers. “We will allocate appropriate land for cultivation with a sublease title of not less than 33 or 66 years for each young farmer so that they are able to access credit and improve productivity as well as reach food security,” he said.