Viewers of e.TV’s Scandal! finally witnessed the character Dintle, played by Mapaseka Koetle-Nyokong having a happy ending during her TV wedding on Tuesday evening.   For over a week, the anticipation of Dintle’s nuptials to Reggie, played by veteran actor Makhaola Ndebele was reaching a fever pitch for fans and it was generally an exciting time for soapy fans.  Soapy weddings are seen as the pinnacle of the show’s script or a major character’s death.  Audiences finally got to see Dintle and Reggie’s nuptials, however they were left with more questions than answers.  Etv’s Scandal! shared some clips to show the intimate affair. Dintle is seen glowing as she walks down the aisle with her mother.  After years of struggling to find love, it seems Dintle has finally met her prince charming in Reginald Pheko.???? ????Come and witness their ‘happily ever after’ tonight at 19:30… #etvscandal #DidisFairytale pic.twitter.com/8RFev0OHWR— Scandal! (@etvScandal) January 24, 2023 She was dressed in a white gown with embellished details on the top. Actress Mapaseka Koetle-Nyokong gave a behind-the-scenes look at how the character’s hair and make-up came about.  Sharing a video on her Instagram page, she wrote: “After years of struggling to find love, it seems Dintle has finally met her prince in Reginald Pheko. Come and witness their “happily even after…” The moment the lead character found love is also when she reunited with her long-lost daughter Motshabi as they reconnected moments before the wedding.  Reggie’s character is described as a good-looking “seasoned” man and a gentleman.  ALSO READ: TV weddings: Scandal!’s Dintle gets a fairytale wedding Scandal! producers described Reggie, saying: “Measured and always neatly dressed, Reggie’s wealth allowed him to retire fairly young although he chooses to live a surprisingly modest life. After retirement, he took up painting,  a hobby he had always been interested in.  There have been conspiracy theories from fans that Reggie might be Dintle’s absent father. She has no idea who her father is and from the script, it appears writers are heading in that direction in finding out who he is. It might be her husband, Reggie.  Hear me out ladies… ???????????? #DidisFairytale #etvscandal pic.twitter.com/hKQP59fju3— Scandal! (@etvScandal) January 24, 2023 What if Reggie is her father ???????????????????????? #etvScandal pic.twitter.com/BzSHStpEHg— Sets ???? (@iamsetsa) January 24, 2023 #etvScandal so if Reggie is dintles dad.. What do we call him? Sbari or mkhwenyana father in law?? Ai yazin cut cut???????????????????? pic.twitter.com/1pJlHf3T0J— Motšhitšhi wa dinose (@NoFlex_Zone3) January 24, 2023 Didn't watch #etvScandal today and I hope they won't be suggesting that Reggie is her father? That would be so disgusting omw ????????— Miss Author ✨ (@MatshidisoBella) January 25, 2023 Don't Date Older Men If You Don't Know Your Father #EtvScandal!— Malume Jay (@MalumeJay4) January 26, 2023 YOU MAY ALSO LIKE: Actress who played Lindiwe says Scandal! was a ‘toxic’ work environment