With Huawei just launching the Mate50 Pro and Samsung about to launch its Flagship devices on 1 February, preliminary data have revealed that worldwide smartphone shipments has declined significantly. According to preliminary data from the International Data Corporation (IDC) Worldwide Quarterly Mobile Phone Tracker smartphone shipments declined by 18.3% year over year to 300.3 million units in the fourth quarter of 2022 (4Q22). Nabila Popal, research director with IDC ‘ s Worldwide Tracker team the drop marked the largest-ever decline in a single quarter and contributed to a steep 11.3% decline for the year. “2022 ended with shipments of 1.21 billion units, which represents the lowest annual shipment total since 2013 due to significantly dampened consumer demand, inflation, and economic uncertainties. “This tough close to the year puts the 2.8% recovery expected for 2023 in serious jeopardy with heavy downward risk to the forecast. We have never seen shipments in the holiday quarter come in lower than the previous quarter.” ALSO READ: WATCH: Huawei innovates with new Mate50 Pro Popal said weakened demand and high inventory caused vendors to cut back drastically on shipments. “Heavy sales and promotions during the quarter helped deplete existing inventory rather than drive shipment growth. Vendors are increasingly cautious in their shipments and planning while realigning their focus on profitability. “Even Apple, which thus far was seemingly immune, suffered a setback in its supply chain with unforeseen lockdowns at its key factories in China. What this holiday quarter tells us is that rising inflation and growing macro concerns continue to stunt consumer spending even more than expected and push out any possible recovery to the very end of 2023,” she said. With 2022 declining more than 11% for the year, 2023 is set up to be a year of caution as vendors will rethink their portfolio of devices while channels will think twice before taking on excess inventory. However, on a positive note, consumers may find even more generous trade-in offers and promotions continuing well into 2023 as the market will think of new methods to drive upgrades and sell more devices, specifically high-end models. Compiled by Faizel Patel, Senior Digital Journalist ALSO READ: WATCH: Samsung to ‘WoooW’ users with new Galaxy smartphones