It could be a matter of jumping off a frying pan straight onto the fire for Arthur Zwane’s Kaizer Chiefs side.  ALSO READ: Pirates striker Dzvukamanja happy to amongst goals in Arrows win Straight after an embarrassing 4-0 loss to AmaZulu FC in a DStv Premiership match last weekend, Chiefs have a date with vulturine Mamelodi Sundowns on Saturday. The loss to Usuthu was heavy and displeasing to the club’s supporters who are now starting to doubt if Zwane is the right man for the job he is doing.   Zwane has, however, opted to look on the bright side of his team’s performance against AmaZulu, insisting that it was perhaps bad luck on the day.  “We conceded from a set piece that we should have defended better,” said Zwane after Friday’s game.  “Then we missed the penalty which would have changed the momentum of the game. We conceded from a dead ball situation again.” While Chiefs’ main problem is the leaky defence, Zwane seems not bothered by that and insists that they just need to be sharper up front.  All four goals conceded in Durban were due to poor defending by the Naturena side. The first two goals came from headers, with Usuthu players allowed space and time inside the Amakhosi box.  For the third, a short pass from Edmilson Dove to Itumeleng Khune was intercepted and for the third, the defence was caught flat footed.  Zwane however insists: “Overall, we didn’t play that badly. We knew they would sit back but we just didn’t capitalise on our opportunities.  “We must improve our final third entry decision making but it’s something we’ll keep working on until we get it right.” But if his defence are in any way like they were against AmaZulu, Zwane should brace for a major thrashing by the unforgiving Sundowns.  Sundowns have been free scoring – with 16 goals in their last six games – and now that they have the lively Peter Shalulile back, they are even more dangerous. But Chiefs also have a boost with Zwane confirming the return of experienced midfielders Cole Alexander and Phathutshedzo Nange. “We’ve been unfortunate in terms of the number of injuries this season. Cole, Khama (Billiat) and Nange started training this weekend,” Zwane told the club’s website. “We are still preparing players for the coming games. We have young players who are equally good who can grab the opportunity. “We will put up the best available eleven players who will be able to go out there and represent the club.”