Arusha. Tanzania is among a few African countries that could top global destinations for tourists this year. The US-based travel agents cite the country’s wildlife splendour and breathtaking landscapes as key in pulling in visitors. Tanzania is sampled alongside South Africa, Kenya, Botswana, Morocco, Zimbabwe, Zambia and Rwanda as the likely leading destinations this year. “When you step out onto the Serengeti plains or the Ngorongoro Crater, the areas are so vast and the density of animals is staggering,” said Craft Travel in its website. Ngorongoro Crater is described by tourists flown there by the travel firm as one of the world’s most breathtaking natural wonders. “It is hard to describe the feeling as you stand on the rim of the crater looking at the various wildlife in their natural habitat,” it said. For US visitors, the game-filled crater bed is a feast of the senses with its stunning views, animal sounds and the aroma. One of them who was recently there was also amazed by the quality of accommodation facilities in some destinations. “I was fortunate to stay at the Ngorongoro crater lodge, a stunning 5 star hotel, probably one of the best in Tanzania, if not Africa,” he said. Also amazing was the vast Serengeti, the country’s most famous and oldest of the existing 22 national parks. The vast open plains are an amazing sight, they seem endless with the annual migration it actually offers so much more. “It has one of the best game views in the world. If you want to experience Tanzania at its best, take the time to try different parks,” he went on. Bucket List Holidays, another American travel outfit, is upbeat on Mt. Kilimanjaro and the exotic Zanzibar Island for US holiday makers. Notable among these is the breathtaking view of the towering Mt. Kilimanjaro, the tallest single standing mountain in the world. The 5,895 metre high mountain also doubles as a national park and attracts thousands of mountain climbers across the world each year. Kilimanjaro alongside Ngorongoro and Serengeti are the top leading destinations for in-coming tourists and account for over a half. A member of Luxe Traveller Club, also from the US, compared a game safari adventure between Tanzania and South Africa. More specifically is how the American travellers sampled the Kruger and Serengeti national parks, iconic sites in both countries. “Whilst a South African safari is great, there is a difference when you step out on to the Serengeti plains or the Ngorongoro Crater,” she said. “I have travelled to many far flung places but there was something magical about Tanzania that makes it stand out in my mind. It was a life experience as well as a holiday,” she added. On its part, Niarra Travels says it will focus on the magical Cape Town city in South Africa, Botswana for its wildlife reserves and gorilla trekking in Rwanda. This year, it will be sending travelers to Zimbabwe, Kenya, Tanzania and Zambia - a country listed as one of the top up-and-coming travel spots and notable for the Victoria Falls. The US has been the main source market for tourists visiting Tanzania for the past 15 years, notably before the outbreak of Covid-19. Although the numbers fell to about 600,000 in 2020 following the pandemic, the country has seen a surge of visitors from 2021. About 900,000 visitors were recorded in 2021 while last year (2022), the figure was expected to surpass the one million mark in three years.