As the Matric Class of 2022 waits in anticipation for the results, educational psychologist Landi Blok van Cronesteyn says not completing or failing Grade 12 is not the end of road. The matric results are expected to be released on 19 January. When the Basic Education Department releases the matric, many pupils or parents seek help if their children are feeling overwhelmed. However, Van Cronesteyn said there is nothing to stress about. “To the parents, I would say just be there for your child and to support them, whatever the results are, if they are not great as they were hoping. Just keep a level head and plan a different path and to seek help from a psychologist if need be.” Van Cronesteyn said matriculants who have not succeeded in passing must realise that they have come so far and made it to matric and that in itself is an achievement. “It is not the end of the road and that when one door closes, another one opens up and it might be an even better future or better path going forward.” ALSO READ: Here’s how your matric marks are calculated and how much you need to pass While some pupils may be heartbroken or shattered by dismal matric results and possibly contemplating suicide, Van Cronesteyn urged them to talk so someone about how they are feeling. “Try not to seclude yourself and speak about your fears, concerns and your feelings to your parents, or with your friends. Take a moment to think about it, reach out and ask for help and to discuss it with someone that you trust.” Van Cronesteyn said there are other alternatives and advises pupils should be optimistic. “There is so many alternatives, obviously rewriting is possible even if it’s just a subject or all of them. But, there are diplomas and certificate courses that you can also go and explore and you don’t need Grade 12 to become a successful adult.”  “If you think about the definition of education, it is to equip individuals to become successful members of society and a Grade 12 in itself is the ultimate for everyone and for most people, but it is not the only way to become a successful adult,” Van Cronesteyn said. Van Cronesteyn wished the matric class of 2022 well for their future and new career paths.  ALSO READ: Attention matriculants: These are the most in-demand skills in SA