Umgeni Water has slammed reports criticising the quality of eThekwini’s tap water. The utility was reacting to social media posts on Wednesday, about Durban’s drinking water quality and whether it was contaminated or safe to drink. “Umgeni Water, as the bulk potable (drinking) water service provider, provides an assurance that the water it supplies complies fully with the mandatory standards for drinking water quality stipulated in the South African National Standards 241 (SANS 241) for drinking water quality. “The water supplied in bulk from all of Umgeni Water’s treatment plants is, therefore, safe for human consumption,” said Umgeni Water. It said regular tests are carried out on drinking water. “The most recent analysis of water quality results found there were no microbiological failures; chlorine residuals were adequate and within the accepted ranges; there was low turbidity in the final water and water supplied from these plants complied with the requirements of SANS 241 for drinking water quality. “Umgeni Water’s water treatment processes are both rigorous and thorough. Advanced and sophisticated treatment technologies and chemicals are used to treat raw water to ensure that safe drinking water is produced,” it said. ALSO READ: Fake news of beachgoer hospitalisations an ‘attempt’ to destroy Durban tourism Umgeni Water said daily monitoring of water quality takes place at all water treatment sites. “This occurs as part of initiatives to ensure that 100% compliance with SANS 241 is constant and consistent. “Sampling of raw water quality at source, namely catchments and dams, is also part of routine monitoring so that the organisation is aware of the quality of raw being abstracted,” it said. The eThekwini Municipality gradually reopened some of its beaches ahead of the festive season, including Umhlanga Main Beach and Umdloti. This after it closed 13 beaches due to high E. coli levels caused by raw, untreated sewage flowing into the ocean following infrastructure damage during the devastating April floods. ALSO READ: Florida Lake residents cry foul over ongoing power outages and water shortage