Two suspects have been shot dead after they tried to rob a mosque in Kensington, Johannesburg, while four others were killed in a separate incident when the Hawks foiled a truck hijacking. In the first incident, it is understood congregants were at the place of worship in Johannesburg on Tuesday, at about 9pm, when they were accosted by a group of unknown armed men who demanded cash and valuables. Police spokesperson Colonel Dimakatso Sello said the congregants retaliated. “One of the church members reportedly retaliated and shot two of the three suspects, fatally wounding them.” “While police attended to the crime scene, a [second] shootout ensued. During this shootout, two people including a police officer sustained gunshot wounds. Both victims were taken to hospital for medical assistance,” Sello said. Two suspects have been shot dead after they tried to rob a mosque in Kensington, Johannesburg. #MosqueRobbery #Mosque #Kensington #Johannesburg Video: Supplied. pic.twitter.com/rU5d5nRR8l— ???????????????????????? ???????????????????? (@FaizelPatel143) January 18, 2023 Sello said police are investigating the shootings. “One suspect is arrested and two cases of murder and attempted murder as well as attempted business robbery are opened for further investigations.” Sello has urged anyone with information that can assist with investigations to contact the police. ALSO READ: Cop killer fatally wounded in shootout with police Meanwhile, in a separate incident, four suspects were fatally wounded and two others arrested in a shootout in an attempted truck hijacking in Midrand.  It is understood police received information from Crime Intelligence of a truck that would be hijacked around Midrand.  Police spokesperson Colonel Katlego Mogale said officials pounced when they identified the suspects’ vehicles on Olifantsfontein Road in Glen Austin.  “Upon realising that the team is about to pounce, the suspects fired shots and a high-speed chase as well as shootout ensued. Four suspects were fatally wounded and two others suffered minor injuries which were attended to on scene.  “The truck is alleged to have been couriering electronic devices. Two unlicensed firearms were recovered on the scene, the four vehicles used by the suspects have questionable origins which are under investigation,” Mogale said.  ALSO READ: Effective law enforcement and merciless judiciary needed to keep CrimeA1 in check