A heatwave is expected over the north-eastern parts of the Western Cape and northern parts of Eastern Cape on Wednesday, warned the South African Weather Service (SAWS). The heatwave is also expected to persist until Thursday in KwaZulu-Natal.  “Prolonged exposure to midday sun poses health risk, dehydration and heatstroke,” warned the weather service.  A few tips to beat the heatwave, according to ER24:  The weather service has also issued an alert for extremely high fire danger in the north-western and central parts of the Northern Cape as well as the extreme western parts of the North-West.  Western Cape Tomorrow 's Weather overview: 18.1.2023 pic.twitter.com/K8HephQybU— SA Weather Service (@SAWeatherServic) January 17, 2023 Gauteng: Partly cloudy and warm. The expected UVB sunburn index: very high.  Mpumalanga: Partly cloudy to cloudy and warm, but hot in the lowveld, with isolated showers and thundershowers along the north-eastern escarpment.  Limpopo: Partly cloudy to cloudy and warm, but hot in places in the north. Isolated showers and thundershowers are expected.  North West: Partly cloudy and hot, with isolated showers and thundershowers except in the east.  Free State: Partly cloudy and warm to hot, with isolated showers and thundershowers except in the east and north-east.  Northern Cape: Partly cloudy and warm to hot but cool along the coast. It will be very hot to extremely hot over the north-eastern interior. Isolated showers and thundershowers are expected over the interior in the afternoon. The wind along the coast will be moderate to fresh southerly to south-westerly.  ALSO READ: Heatwave to persist in Eastern Cape and KZN until Thursday Western Cape: Fog patches along the coastal areas and adjacent interior in the morning, otherwise partly cloudy and warm to hot but very hot in places over the eastern parts. Isolated to scattered showers and thundershowers can be expected over the east and the eastern parts of the south coast by afternoon.  The wind along the coast will be light northerly to north-westerly in the west and south-west becoming moderate westerly to south-westerly by afternoon. It will be light south-easterly along the south coast becoming south-westerly in the afternoon. The expected UVB sunburn index: Extreme. Western half of the Eastern Cape: Fine and warm to hot, becoming partly cloudy in the afternoon with scattered showers and thundershowers. The wind along the coast will be light E to SE, becoming moderate SW in the late afternoon.  Eastern half of the Eastern Cape: Fine and warm to hot. It will become partly cloudy in places in the afternoon with isolated showers and thundershowers in the evening west of the Kei River. The wind along the coast will be light south westerly becoming moderate north easterly in the afternoon.  KwaZulu-Natal: Partly cloudy and hot. The wind along the coast will be moderate north-easterly becoming fresh in the north from afternoon. The expected UVB sunburn index: Extreme.