A wanted Mozambican kidnapping kingpin has been arrested, the South African Police Service (Saps) has confirmed. Esmael Malude Ramos Nangy was nabbed by police together Interpol, following a raid late on Saturday at “an upmarket estate” in Centurion, Pretoria. The suspect stands accused of orchestrating kidnappings in Mozambique that netted several million dollars over the past two decades.  ALSO READ: Kidnapping mastermind Faizal Charloos’ brother arrested in Lenasia “On Saturday evening, the team also consisting of special task force, crime intelligence and organized crime pounced on the 50-year-old at an identified address in Centurion where he was arrested,” police said in a statement. “The team was acting on a warrant of arrest and an extradition request by the government of Mozambique.” Police seized a firearm, cartridges, five mobile phones, as well as several bank cards and SIM cards. Ramos Nangy is set to appear in the Randburg Magistrate’s Court on Monday. Special police teams & INTERPOL_HQ have arrested a wanted kidnapping kingpin at an upmarket estate in Centurion. Esmael Malude Ramos Nangy (50) will be extradited to Mozambique. Police seized a 9mm licensed firearm, 14 9mm cartridges, five cellphones, multiple bank & SIM cards. pic.twitter.com/IewUE6VkuX— Yusuf Abramjee (@Abramjee) January 8, 2023 Last November, police arrested a 43-year-old man purported to be linked to detained suspected Mozambican kidnapping kingpin Faizal Charloos. Charloos had a cellphone smuggled into his cell and was using it to communicate with his alleged accomplices on the outside, according to police spokesperson Lieutenant Colonel Robert Netshiunda. “Intelligence information pointed the police to a residence in Lenasia where Charloos’ alleged accomplice was arrested. He was found in possession of a cellphone which preliminary investigations revealed that he was using to send money to Charloos via e-wallet and also make other payments as ordered by Charloos,” Netshiunda said. READ MORE: Kidnapped businessman Ranga Gova in Zimbabwe after being found Netshiunda further incited that more arrests are expected. “The suspect was also found in possession of a white Toyota Hilux affixed with false registration plates. Further investigations confirmed that the vehicle was hijacked in Lyttelton in July 2016. Police are following several leads and more arrests cannot be ruled out.”. Charloos was arrested on 18 March with five other suspects, including his wife, Sadiya, for their alleged involvement in a string of kidnapping cases and for terrorising businessmen in Gauteng. Kidnappings for ransom have also exploded in recent years in South Africa, already infamous for its high crime rate. Additional reporting by Faizel Patel