Shown as a last year in addition to having been spied on various online platforms throughout 2022 undergoing testing, Volkswagen officially teased its latest all-electric ID model at the recent Consumer Electronic Show (CES) in Las Vegas in the shape of new ID.7. Known until now as the ID Aero B, the sedan ID.7 joins a product lineup that, until now, has consisted of the ID.3 hatch and the ID.4, ID.5 and ID.6 crossovers, plus the ID Buzz with more models due later. In effect the replacement for the sedan version of the Passat, the ID.7 rides on Wolfsburg’s dedicated all-electric MEB platform with its dimensions set to be announced once production officially kicks-off. ALSO READ: Volkswagen’s electric Passat replacement spied on local soil While the same applies the exterior styling as evident by newcomer bowing in Las Vegas wrapped in heavy disguise complete with a unique pattern and series of QR codes, what is noticeable is a coupe-style roofline, rounded frontal fascia similar to the Lamando sold in China and a flat rear-end that takes after that of the Jetta, albeit with different LED light clusters. Somewhat surprisingly, Volkswagen also showcased the ID.7’s interior in full, confirming the presence of a new augmented reality Head-Up Display, a fifteen-inch touchscreen infotainment system and a first digitally controlled air vent arrangement called Smart Air Vents that can be opened using the “Hello Volkswagen” voice command. Part of an extensive rethink of the air-conditioning system itself, the setup can detect the temperature outside using the key and adjust the delivery and flow of cold or hot air inside before the driver gets in. This also applies to the heated steering wheel, with the final adjustment being illuminated touch sliders as announced by Volkswagen Passenger Car CEO Thomas Schäfer last year. “With the new ID.7, we are extending our electric model range into the upper segments. The sedan will offer top-class technology and quality. The ID.7 is one of ten new electric models that we are planning to launch by 2026. Our goal? To deliver suitable products for our customers in every single segment,” Schäfer said in a statement. Not announced at the CES though was the ID.7’s drivetrain, though reports are it will have the same 82-kWh battery as the ID.4, but with a range of 600 km rather than 400 km. A performance GTX derivative has also been rumoured. Reportedly on track to enter production in the second half of this year at the former Passat plant in Emden, Germany, alongside the ID.4 and ID.5, the ID.7 will initially be marketed only in China, Europe and North America with other markets set to be announced as the year goes on. This could well include South Africa after an example turned up not far from the Uitenhage Plant, now Kariega, undergoing testing last year looking production ready. What could well be a model to spearhead Volkswagen’s EV switch in South Africa before 2030, chances are that 2024 will present a more realistic entry for the ID.7 into the local market.