With an all-electric future on the cards before 2030, Aston Martin has taken the wraps off of the farewell version of the DBS in preparation for the moniker’s imminent hiatus once again. Revived five years ago as the replacement for the Vanquish, itself succeeded by the DBS V12 that lasted from 2007 to 2012, the final rendition carries the 770 Ultimate designation that officially sees it becoming the most powerful internal combustion engine production car the Gaydon-based marque as ever made. Set to be limited to 499 examples, 300 coupes and 199 Volante cabriolets, the 770 Ultimate carries over the AMG-sourced 5.2-litre twin-turbo V12 from the standard DBS, albeit with a new air and ignition pathway plus a 7%s increase in turbo boost that lifts power to 770 pferdestarke (PS) or 566 kW. ALSO READ: Aston Martin removes DBS Superleggra’s roof Up 33 kW on the regular DBS with torque unchanged at 900 Nm, the claimed top speed of 340 km/h is also identical with no details of the 0-100 km/h sprint being revealed. Besides its added grunt, channelled once again to the rear wheels through an eight-speed Touchtronic automatic gearbox, Aston has tweaked the chassis of what until 2021 was known as the DBS Superleggera by revising the steering, fitting a new front crossmember and retuning the software for the adaptive dampers. While the standard DBS’ limited slip differential is retained, the otherwise optional carbon ceramic brakes have been fitted to the 770 Ultimate, meaning measurements of 410 mm for the front discs and 360 mm for the rears. Mounted on 21-inch multispoke satin silver or satin black alloy wheels with an optional diamond turned finish inspired by those of the one-off Victor, wrapped in Pirelli PZero tyres, the DBS 770 Ultimate’s additional exterior add-ons consist of a new bonnet with deeper air vents, a model specific front splitter and wider for grille for improved cooling. New carbon fibre door sills and a redesigned diffuser rounds off the exterior, together with what Aston Martin calls twill carbon fibre detailing on the mirror caps, windscreen surround and side vent intakes. Inside, the unique interior touches comprises the sport plus seats trimmed in semi-aniline leather and Alcantara with a so-called fluted quilt perforated pattern, a laser etched DBS 770 Ultimate badge on the front armrest, carbon fibre gear shift paddles and a special builder’s plaque that identifies the respective model selected as one of the coupes or Volantes. Now available for ordering for delivers commencing in the third quarter of the year, it remains unknown at present if any of the 499 DBS 770 Ultimates will be coming or have been allocated for South Africa.