Dar es Salaam. President Samia Suluhu Hassan yesterday dropped 37 District Commissioners (DCs) in her latest changes as she seeks to live up to what she promised members of the ruling party’s national congress last month. In what signaled that she was up to making a major patch-up in government, President Hassan, who is also the ruling CCM’s national chairperson, said she would make changes to the list of her lieutenants in an effort to boost the implementation of the party’s 2020 election manifesto. “I need your (party) blessings for me to go and arrange the government,” President Hassan said in December last year, adding: “I need a team that will be able to match my speed and implement the resolutions that the party has reached today.” She said going towards 2025, she wanted the party to market itself to voters based on tangible things that they have done and therefore, the need to have people who implement the 2020 election promises with the speed and zeal that will simplify the 2025 State House bid. In line with the promise, yesterday morning President Hassan issued a new lineup of district commissioners, comprising 37 new appointments, transferring 47 DCs to new work posts, while 55 were left in their current posts. What becomes vivid, however, is the fact that a majority of the new appointees are not new names in the political sphere, and in fact, they are mostly CCM loyalists. The list of 37 includes CCM loyalists who once held other leadership positions in the party and in government, while the other group involves those who had been active in other positions outside the party. The names and their new posts are in brackets and include: Farida Mgomi (Ileje), Rachel Kasanda (Magu), Wilman Ndile (Songea), and Julius Laiser (Karagwe). Mr Laiser once served as an MP on the ticket of the opposition Chadema, but he was one of those who defected to the ruling party during the reign of the former President John Magufuli, when defections were the order of the day. Others are: a former aspirant for the post of member of the East African Legislative Assembly, Mr Emmanuela Kaganda; the former CCM regional chairman for Iringa, Dr Abel Nyamahanga (Muleba); the former secretary of CCM’s parent wing at national level, Erasto Sima (Bukoba); the former director of Presidential Communications, Jaffar Haniu (Rungwe); and the immediate past CCM secretary for ideology and publicity, Mr Shaka Shaka (Kilosa). The list also has party cadres Mboni Mohamed Mhita (Kahama), former Secretary for Publicity, Mobilisation and Pioneers (UVCCM), Victoria Mwanziva (Ludewa), Hassan Bomboko (Ukerewe), Goodluck Mlinga (Liwale), Mr Chistopher Ngubiagai (Kilwa), Mr Amir Mkalipa (Hai), Kasilda Mgeni (Same), Solomon Itunda (Songwe), Deusdedith Katwale (Chato), and media personnel Grace Henry Kingalame (Nyang’halwe), and Notable names also include former President of the Tanzania Teachers Union (CWT), Leah Ulaya (Mbogwe) and CWT’s former vice president Dinah Mathaman (Uvinza) as well as an academic lecturer and researcher of · Mbeya University of Science and Technology Dr Linda Salekwa (Mufindi). Other new appointees are Marko Ngu’mbi ( Longido), Emmanuela Mtatifikolo (Arumeru), Gerald Mongella (Chemba), Col Boniphace Magembe (Geita), Japhet Maganga (Kyerwa), Dr Christopher Timbuka (Siha), Beno Malisa (Mbeya), Josephine Manase (Kyela), Rebeca Msemwa (Morogoro), Rachel Kasanda (Magu), Col Joseph Kolombo –(Kibiti), Zephania Sumaye (Mafia), Lazaro Komba–(Kalambo), Dr Jane Nyamsenda (Sumbawanga), Zakaria Mwansasu (Uyui) and lastly Naitapwaki Tukai (Nzega).  Why now? Analysts say, in line with recent announcements by President Hassan, the new lineup seeks to achieve efficiency in the administration of government affairs while also keeping a close eye on the appointees’ loyalty as the countdown to the 2025 general elections officially gets underway. A political analyst from the University of Dodoma, Dr Paul Luisulie, said the decision could be informed by the significance of the DC’s posts in realising developmental plans and citizens’ welfare. “Citizens have high expectations of their government, and if those in power fail to achieve some plans efficiently, change is inevitable,” he said. He said the changes may also be attributed to Tanzania’s newfound political freedom after the return of political rallies, which may be the catalyst for a new round of politics. “A strong team of doers, even at the lower levels, will be needed by those in power to deal with the coming political movements,” he said, adding that the significance is even greater now that the ruling party is looking forward to retaining its seats in 2025. Dr Faraja Kristomus of the University of Dar es Salaam said the changes could be informed by the need to strengthen the performance of the government at the lower level and also to strengthen the ranks of CCM cadres because historically, such positions have been their preserve. “In general, one can say that she is strengthening the winning team toward the 2025 elections. There are therefore two things in it,” he said.