SOCCER 10 POOL OF THE DAYTuesday 24 January S10 V2 TS Galaxy had an upset away win over Sundowns at the start of the season and hope home advantage at the Mbombela Stadium on Tuesday helps them in their bid to do the ‘double’ over the champions. More details at www.soccer6.co.za. M1 TS Galaxy vs Mamelodi Sundowns: Galaxy are one of only two sides who have beaten Sundowns this season but have not scored in their last four games. The champions have won 15 of 18 league games this season.M2 Hertha Berlin vs VfL Wolfsburg: Hertha have slipped to second from bottom in the Bundesliga. Wolfsburg earned a 6-0 victory over Freiburg at home in their last league match to extend their unbeaten streak to nine.M3 TSG 1899 Hoffenheim vs VfB Stuttgart: Hoffenheim are winless in six straight Bundesliga matches while Stuttgart are in 16th place on 15 points.M4 Accrington Stanley vs Boreham Wood: Accies host this A Cup third round replay against a team two divisions lower than them. Their first clash last month ended 1-1.M5 Crusaders vs Linfield: Linfield have scored nine goals in their last two Northern Ireland league games to move to within one point of top place. Hosts Crusaders are three points behind Linfield.M6 Fleetwood Town vs Portsmouth: Fleetwood were beaten in their previous two outings in League One. Portsmouth’s 2-0 home win over Exeter City at the weekend ended a run of seven games without victory.M7 Lazio vs AC Milan: Milan have won their past three clashes against Lazio, the last one away. The champions are second in Serie A but 12 points behind leaders Napoli.M8 Port Vale vs Derby County: Port Vale had a surprise 2-1 win at Derby earlier this season but the Rams are still in a good spot for promotion push from League One.M9 Wycombe Wanderers vs Oxford United: Wycombe have won three of their past four clashes with Oxford, drawing the other.M10 Southampton vs Newcastle United: Southampton get a break from their league travails as they host the first league of the League Cup semi-final. The return at Newcastle is on 31 January. Suggested permutation: R64.00 3 x 2,3 x 1 x 1 x 3 x 1,2 x 1,2 x 2,3 x 1 x 1,2