A 36-year-old woman has been arrested after she was clocked driving at 220km/h in a red VW Golf 7 on the N4 East highway in Gauteng.  The speedster was handcuffed by the Gauteng Traffic Police High Speed Unit on Friday night. It is unclear why the woman was speeding.  Gauteng Traffic Police Spokesperson Sello Maremane said the woman was detained at Bronkhorstspruit police station. “She is facing charges relating to reckless and negligent driving with an alternative charge of driving in excess of the prescribed speed limit of 120 km per hour. The speedster is expected to appear in Bronkhorstspruit Magistrate’s Court shortly,” Maremane said. “The Gauteng Traffic Police High Speed Unit has been successful in clamping down on speedsters due to the use of the latest technological devices during their operations such as the moving violation recorders (MVR).”  According to Maremane, the MVR records the average speed measured over a minimum of 500 metres. The event is recorded and downloaded for investigation and prosecution purposes. ALSO READ: Joburg motorist caught driving at 189km/h Maremane urged road users to adhere to the prescribed speed limits on Gauteng’s major routes. “As we are still in the festive season period, it is important that drivers continue to comply with the prescribed maximum speed limit, thus making road safety a priority. The Gauteng Traffic Police will intensify high speed operations and clamp down on speedsters on Gauteng major routes and freeways.” “The Gauteng Traffic Police will also enforce compliance with the rules and regulations of the road without fear or favour. The safety of road users has reached critical point,” added Maremane. Last week, the new year got off to a very bad start for a Johannesburg motorist after he was caught speeding at 189km/h. The driver was among seven others who were arrested on the first day of 2023. The Johannesburg Metropolitan Police Department (JMPD) also recorded more than 6 000 speeding violations by motorists. ALSO READ: ‘My wife is pregnant’ – One of the many excuses given by speeding motorists