The case against four suspects arrested in connection with violent service delivery protests in Parys, Free State, has been postponed.  The four accused appeared briefly on Wednesday in the Parys Magistrate’s Court on charges of arson and public violence.  This follows service delivery protests in Tumahole on Tuesday in the Ngwathe Local Municipality over water cuts. ALSO READ: South Africa in flames: Monday protest action Angry residents barricaded roads with burning tyres and rocks and allegedly torched the house belonging to the family of Mayor Victoria de Beer. The Mayor’s house in Parys pic.twitter.com/P1n3WpfhVg— Fana Mokoena (@fanamokoena) January 16, 2023 Dozens of community members gathered outside the Parys Magistrate’s Court as the four suspects appeared, calling for their unconditional release from jail. There was also a heavy police presence on standby to maintain public order. During the accused’s brief court appearance, the matter was postponed to Monday for formal bail application and the profiling of the arrested suspects. In total 12 suspects were arrested on Tuesday for public violence and more arrests are reportedly expected as investigations continue. There was also protest action in Kroonstad on Monday, over power cuts and lack of water supply. Meanwhile, Free State Premier Sisi Ntombela called for calm following the protests in Tumahole and Kroonstad. Ntombela called on residents, and particularly leaders of the protests, to ensure that discipline is maintained at all times to protect infrastructure. She said while residents have a right to protest, the rights of others should also be respected. “We are aware of the unrest currently taking place in Moqhaka and Ngwathe local municipalities respectively. Sadly, these protests have taken a violent turn and resulted in property, including the home of executive mayor De Beer, being set alight. “Our people enjoy and are protected by certain rights, such as the right to peacefully protest. However, these rights should not be abused and impede on the rights of others,” Ntombela said in a statement. The premier urged residents to disassociate themselves from criminal elements and called on police to act with the necessary urgency to bring those responsible for the mayhem to book. Compiled by Thapelo Lekabe NOW READ: DPE ‘seeking legal advice’ amid litigation over electricity tariff hike, load shedding