Tanga. Wildlife dealers and other stakeholders have renewed their appeal to the government to lift a ban on butterfly exports. They said it was counterproductive for the economy to miss on badly needed revenues for the ban slapped in 2019. “Butterfly exports generated good income for the residents of Amani division in Muheza district,” said Ms Pili Mnyema, the Regional Administrative Secretary (RAS). She made the remarks last week as the region outlined its goals to promote tourism and allied sectors in 2023. “In our view, there was no need to impose a ban on exports of butterflies because it was a source of income for people,” she said. According to her, the regional authorities will soon reach out to the Ministry of Natural Resources and Tourism over the issue. She said besides a modest income to the farmers, butterfly exports also provided foreign exchange. “In the long run, such income would be channelled back to strengthen the conservation programmes in those areas,” she added. Jeremiah Mchechu, manager of a private company dealing with ecological tourism in Magoroto, said the ban has not brought the expected benefits. He said some forests close to or within the Amani Nature Reserve which had a large population of the insects had been cleared due to increased human activities. He warned of the danger of various bird species disappearing from the famous nature reserve due to deforestation and other man made activities. A forestry expert, Stephano Kingazi said Tanga region has an array of tourism attractions, including forestry reserves but have not been exploited to optimal use. He said exports of butterflies and other small creatures would generate significant income to the people and the economy. In 2019, the government banned the export of butterflies from the Amani division in Muheza district, dealing a blow to the insect farmers. The insects had a big market in various countries abroad including the United States where, it is believed, they are used for ornamental purposes. The government said it understood the pain suffered by hundreds of butterfly farmers when it imposed the ban. However, it was equally concerned that uncontrolled exports compromised the country’s natural resources capital. The ban on butterfly exports, for some, presented a lost opportunity even though the government had good reasons. An appeal on the lift has been renewed