SuperSport United coach Gavin Hunt has spoken about the pain of losing Thatayaone Ditlhokwe to Kaizer Chiefs. ALSO READ: ‘Arthur Zwane is the right man for Kaizer Chiefs,’ says former defenderThis comes after Chiefs announced recently that the talented centre back had signed a pre-contract with them and officially join them in July.  Hunt has expressed disappointment at SuperSport’s failure to tie the defender to a new contract. “I am very upset with Ditlhokwe leaving because this should have never never happened. But I wasn’t here and I know what should have happened and what did not happen,” said Hunt. Hunt added: “It is very disappointing because you are losing a player that is 24 years old and he will only be at his best at 30 years old because centre backs improve as they get older. Since I have been here he improved and he scored a couple of goals. He has been the rock for the club, it is really disappointing.”  Meanwhile, Hunt has revealed the secret to winning three league titles on the spin with SuperSport between 2007 and 2010.  ALSO READ: Sundowns look set to offload some players “You need players and you can’t let a team age all at once,” said the former Kaizer Chiefs and Bidvest Wits coach. “You need to refresh the team and my secret has always been: when the team is winning, change the team. When you win the league, you need to change the team and refresh it all the time. “That is why maybe teams in certain countries are not where they should be because they don’t want to change teams. You have to keep the hunger and desire there and even have it when you are not playing well. “You want to improve the squad but you can’t just have somebody who is going to bring in numbers and sit on the bench. You need someone who is better than your starters,” Hunt added.Hunt’s SuperSport are currently third on the DStv Premiership standings with 28 points from 17 games. They trail runaway leaders and defending champions Mamelodi Sundowns by 21 points, but they have two games in hand over the Brazilians.