Zitha Kwinika has admitted that having Itumeleng Khune back in goal and on song for Kaizer Chiefs is a big boost for the club, as they look to make ground on Mamelodi Sundowns in the DStv Premiership title race. ALSO READ: City’s Lakay targets Pirates upset “Itu is one of the greatest players in the country,” said Chiefs defender Kwinika this week at the Chiefs Village. “It is not only about Itu, everyone has a role to play. Itu’s role is to make saves, it is part of his job, like tackling is part of my job. But having him behind you is important, not only for me, but also for opponents. When they play, they know about Khune, he is our leader and he is leading by example.” Amakhosi will celebrate their 53rd birthday as they take on Sekhukhune United at FNB Stadium on Saturday, and Kwinika is well aware of the importance of celebrating in style and picking up another three points. Chiefs started the resumption of the league with a 2-0 win at Golden Arrows on Saturday. “It is important for us to keep the momentum,” he added. “We ended the year so well so we need to start on a clean slate, and this game marks the halfway point in the season. It is very important for us to see where we are and what we need to do going forward. “Being a part of Chiefs is history on its own,” he added on the birthday celebrations. “When you understand where we are and what people went through (to get us here), you don’t take being a part of the set up for granted. It is a pleasure and privilege for every player who wants to be here, and with that comes a responsibility to do your best and represent the brand with dignity. “We know what an important game it is for us (against Sekhukhune) and we are willing it to be a good one for us.” Chiefs’ defence has found some steel as the season has progressed, with Kwinika forming a good partnership in central defence with Edmilson Dove. “Defending is not only about the defence or me or Dove, it is the whole team,” said Kwinika, however. “It is a team effort, defending from the top to back. Everyone understands the role we need to play as defenders, it is our job and we are trying by all means to do it properly”