Local cricket fans had to wait until the final day of the third and final Test against Australia in Sydney for the Proteas to finally show some fight on their disastrous tour Down Under.  South Africa’s spinners Keshav Maharaj and Simon Harmer dug deep to help the tourists avoid a 3-0 series whitewash as they held out for a draw in the final Test.  However, the spinners heroics didn’t come with the ball but rather with the bat as No 9 Maharaj made 53 off 81 balls and Harmer, batting at eight, fell just three runs short of a deserved half century after batting for over three and a half hours.  They found assistance from Marco Jansen, who batted for 78 balls at number seven, while opener Sarel Erwee later made an unbeaten 42 in just under three hours as South Africa only lost two wickets after being asked to follow-on.  The Aussies have been dominant over the last few weeks, beating the Proteas by six wickets on a tricky surface in Brisbane inside two days and then by an innings and 182 runs in Melbourne.  Despite losing so much time in the final Test due to rain, the Aussies smelt blood and even though the task of picking up 14 wickets yesterday on the final day was unlikely, it was not beyond reach against the out of form and inexperienced Proteas batting line-up.  ALSO READ: Elgar was like a steak in the braai flames, but his hunger is still there So where to now for the Proteas?  They were resoundingly thumped in every department by a really good Australian outfit in a tough place to tour, but that doesn’t make up for all the glaring weaknesses that have been exposed over the last few weeks.  While still wet behind the ears for the majority of the squad, many do not look like they belong at this level.  Some tough decisions need to be taken going forward – at administrative and players level.  The domestic structure needs a rethink, and we must start building for the future by blooding youngsters that are expected to play for the next five years.  The hammering might not be ideal, but it may have come at the right time for South African cricket so they can have a long, hard look at themselves. NOW READ: TV networks’ bias under scrutiny as Labuschagne slips from the net