Sporting activities at the then Mkwawa High School of the late 1960s were superb. Facilities for all games were in place. They included pitches for field hockey, rugby, cricket, athletics, and naturally football - it had three pitches. There were also courts for basketball, volleyball, lawnv tennis, badminton and gymnastics as well as facilities for table tennis and darts in the four halls of residence. And if you were interested in music there were pianos, violins and guitars in place. In a nutshell the school was in a position to cater well for all sporting and cultural activities. But the most popular game was naturally football. As mentioned above there were three football pitches in place. Apart from the football teams of halls of residence and the school team there two major football clubs at the school. And these were the Hot Spurs and the African Kibuyu. Hot Spurs was affiliated to the then Sunderland and later Simba Club, while African Kibuyu was an affiliate of the Young Africans Club. Naturally there was great rivalry between the two teams. The rivalry was such that whenever these two teams met there would be no classes on that day. I was then a goalie of the African Kibuyu, notwithstanding my tiny and short structure. One evening, on the eve of a crucial match, I was approached by a team of Hot Spurs officials and they convinced me and my central striker to switch sides and join their team. After much convincing we agreed to join their team. We were even given presents for our betrayal of the African Kibuyu. Naturally this did not go well with our team. In due course the African Kibuyu team retaliated by poaching two prominent players of Hot Spurs. From thereon the excitement and even the rivalry between the two clubs whittled down. The students lost interest in football at the school. Even our school team and its performance was affected. I foresee the same happening in our Bongoland football. The two major clubs, Young Africans and Simba are locked in a bitter rivalry. They are busy outpunching each other. Poaching players and getting ‘suspect’ results against weaker opponents of six or eight goals. This is not healthy for our football game. Supporters of the game are slowly but surely getting bored. Something needs to be done by the footballing authorities. Otherwise we might end up the Mkwawa High School way. And that will be a tragedy.