South Africans have been warned to prepare for temperatures as high as 40°C in some parts of the country, and at least seven lives have already been lost due to the heat, as an unrelenting heatwave persists.  Gauteng residents are expected to sweat this week, with the regional weather service warning residents to take precautions. Regional weather service, Gauteng Weather, has forecasted even hotter temperatures with low chances of any rain for the province. “Alert, worst of the heat ahead,” It tweeted. According to Gauteng Weather, temperatures in Johannesburg start off at a minimum of 17°C on Tuesday, becoming very hot and reaching a high of 34°C on Wednesday. It has also forecaster a 20 to 25% chance of rain to cool things down. Pretoria will also not be spared from the scorching temperatures. The mercury in the capital city is expected rise from 18°C on Monday, reaching a sweltering 36°C on Wednesday. There is also a 20% to 27% chance for rain forecasted for Pretoria. ???? ALERT: WORST OF THE HEAT AHEAD!!!Monday????16|33°CTuesday⛅️15|33°C☂️20%Wednesday⛅️15|34°C☂️25%Thursday????17|27°C☂️10%Friday⛅️14|29°C☂️20%#JHBWeatherMonday????18|35°CTuesday⛅️17|35°C☂️20%Wednesday⛅️17|36°C☂️27%Thursday????16|29°C☂️10%Friday⛅️16|31°C☂️20%#PTAWeather— Gauteng Weather (@tWeatherSA) January 22, 2023 Johannesburg Emergency Services Robert Mulaudzi has urged residents to take precaution during the extreme hot temperatures. “Residents are urged to drink lots of water, avoid direct sunlight especially between 11am and 3pm. Those who are working under direct sunlight must take regular break so that we can prevent situations of heat exhaustion and heat cramps which may lead to heat stroke.” “From our side as the City of Johannesburg Emergency Management Services, we remain on high alert so that we can respond to any emergencies that might occur throughout the City of Johannesburg,” Mulaudzi said. A heatwave weather advisory for KwaZulu-Natal was issued by the South African Weather Service (Saws) on Monday, warning residents of scorching temperatures expected in the province. The weather office said persistently high temperatures are expected over the central and eastern parts of KZN from Sunday to Tuesday evening. Temperatures are expected to range from 32°C to 40°C. ALSO READ:  Relief for KZN residents as cooler temperatures expected from Wednesday In Pietermaritzburg, temperatures are expected to reach a maximum of 40°C on Tuesday. Temperatures in Riverview are expected to reach a maximum of 37°C and 36°C in Ladysmith. Meanwhile, the South African Weather Services (Saws) has also warned of high temperatures across other parts of the country. “A heatwave with persistently high temperatures is expected over Gauteng and KwaZulu-Natal until Tuesday. Fine and hot. The expected UVB sunburn index is extreme. Weather advisory: heat wave: KwaZulu-Natal: 22/01/2023 0:00 until 24/01/2023  20:00 pic.twitter.com/NMqjF9LRcv— SA Weather Service (@SAWeatherServic) January 23, 2023 “When temperatures are extremely high, our ability to cool our bodies through sweating is reduced, and this can lead to dehydration and heat stroke. People and animals may experience heat stroke of heart exhaustion with prolonged heat exposure and physical activities,” it said. Meanwhile, seven people in Kakamas, in the Northern Cape, died due to heatstroke last week. The Northern Cape Department of Health has confirmed five died on Thursday, 19 January, and two on Friday morning (20 January). Another farmworker remains on a ventilator at the hospital. One of the deceased initially fainted at work. A foreman at the farm, whose name isn’t disclosed, said a second colleague fainted while sitting in a shaded area on the farm. ALSO READ: Full river systems, heavy rain and La Niña hold potential for ‘disaster’