Following what the South African Broadcasting Corporation (SABC) calls a short-lived break, its biggest commercial radio station, Metro FM, has announced the return of the station’s much-anticipated music awards ceremony, the Metro FM Music Awards (MMAs) in 2023. The announcement was made in Mpumalanga earlier this week, where it was also confirmed that the awards ceremony is scheduled to take place on 29 April 2023 in the City of Mbombela. There were rumours that the MMAs were set to return in 2019 after industry insiders said they have reason to believe that it is only a matter of time before they are announced. According to a report published by the Sowetanin 2019, music industry insiders from the country’s leading record labels told the publication that they have unofficially been tipped off to prepare their nomination submissions. At the time of the report, SABC spokesperson Vuyo Mthembu refused to confirm or deny the return of the awards ceremony.  The 17th instalment of the once-annual awards ceremony was set to take place in 2018, but was postponed citing the SABC’s failure to deliver a formal presentation to the eThekwini Municipality.  According to a City Press report, the public broadcaster had also reportedly failed to raise the R30 million needed to fund the event. Sowetan, however, attributed the event’s cancellation to cost-cutting measures by the KZN government. That was not the first time the event was put on ice. Times Live reports that there were no MMAs in 2009 after the host, the City of Tshwane, withdrew as a sponsor and again in 2012 due to the fact that its budget was not signed off. The 2023 ceremony will also be broadcast live on SABC1 and supported by various SABC radio stations. In addition, the awards will also be streamed live on SABC Plus and Metro FM’s YouTube channel. According to organisers, “the MMAs will provide a platform for interaction with music, business, public representatives, communities and the media, with a rationale to recognise and reward luminaries and excellence in the music industry”. ALSO READ: SABC will not confirm or deny the return of the Metro FM Music Awards They also shared their hopes that this year’s awards will stimulate interest “by unearthing talent and promoting development”. A call for submission for the nominees was also announced and entries will be open from 19 January 2023 closing on 28 February 2023.  The submissions can be done on the official MMAs website.  The Metro FM Music Awards 2023 comprises 20 categories and there will be stringent requirements for albums, singles and recordings to count as eligible. Namely, the requirement that only projects released between 28 February 2022 to 28 February 2023 are eligible. “We are excited to bring back one of the SABC’s biggest events that is loved by the millions [in] our audiences. This event has grown to be embraced by the industry and surely has made an indelible mark, hence the demand for it remained high even at the time of its short break,” commented Group Executive for SABC Radio Nada Wotshela.  “This property presents a great opportunity to amplify SABC’s brand equity and strengthen our efforts of taking SABC brands to the people.” Head of Department for Culture, Sport and Recreation Godfrey Ntombela also expressed his department’s excitement to see the awards return to Mpumalanga. “We strongly believe that this event will reignite tourism and the fact that we are the host province again is an indication that our province is a perfect destination for tourism and cultural activities. The opportunity to host this major event comes at the right time and we are hopeful that it will benefit the creative industry that is still reeling from the dire effects of Covid-19.”  READ NEXT: PICS: Metro FM presenters DJ Sabby and Lindi Serame get hitched after 10 years of dating