South Africa’s largest circuit racing event of 2023 will kick off the season at the Zwartkops Raceway this weekend. The 22nd annual Passion for Speed event will cater for more than 280 cars, spread over ten separate competition disciplines. The biggest crowd drawcard should be two races for Marlboro Crane Hire Pre-1966 Legend Production Cars, with some of the country’s top drivers behind the wheels of spectacular muscle machinery from motorsport’s golden era. Podium chasers should include Ben Morgenrood (Ford Mustang), Jeffrey Kruger (Mercury Cougar), Jonathan du Toit (Plymouth Barracuda), Hennie Groenewald (Mercury Comet), Greame Nathan (Chevrolet Chevelle), Mark du Toit (Ford Fairlane), Stiaan Kriel (Studebaker Lark), Warren Lombard (Ford Mustang), Colin Ellison (Ford Thunderbolt), Lee Thompson (Ford Galaxie), Jaki Scheckter (Ford Galaxie) and Paige Lindenberg (Ford Fairlane). Officially, the event’s top billing will belong to the 45-minute Castrol Pre-1968 Le Mans Sports and GT car race. Last year’s winner Warren Lombard (Cobra) will face off against people like Mark/Jonathan du Toit (Ford GT40), Oliver Dalais (Ford GT40), Peter Bailey (Ford GT40), Rui Campos (Daytona Coupe), Thomas Falkiner (Ford Mustang), Swedish Ford GT40 drivers Janne Kling and Kenneth Persen, James Temple (Daytona Coupe) and Hennie Groenewald/Carel Pienaar (Sunbeam Tiger). ALSO READ: Zwartkops Passion for Speed 2023 promises to be a spectacle Top contenders in the Auto Truck & Tyre Pre-1974 Sport Prototype races should include Larry Wilford (Lola T70), Colin Ellison (Chevron B19), Jonathan du Toit (Chevron B9), Andre van der Merwe (Porsche 911 RSR), Hennie Groenewald (Chevrolet Comaro), Mark du Toit (Lola T70), Rui Campos (Porsche 911 RSR), Peter Bailey (Porsche 917) and Swede Kenneth Pearson (McLaren MB5). A wide variety will typify the races for Marlboro Crane Hire Pre-1968 Little Giants, with champion John Ten Doeschate (Protea) under attack from drivers like Alan Poulter (Ford Corsair), Kyle Brink (Mini Cooper S), Patrick Gearing (Alfa Romeo Giulia), Ishmael Baloyi (GSM Dart), Terrence Botes (Mini Cooper S), Liam Murphy (Volvo P1800), Jake Dovey (Austin Healy Sprite) and Robin Clarke (MGB GT). The Morgenrood Group Pre-1980 Saloon racing boasts 27 entries, including drivers like Rudolf de Vos (Chevrolet Firenza CanAm), Stuart Konig (Volksagen Scirocco), Rene Janse van Rensburg (Ford Escort), Jannie van Rooyen (Volkswagen Scirocco), Cor Kraamwinkel (BMW 2002), Travis Jensen (Datsun 1200 GX), Ian Kilburn (Datsun 1200 GX Coupe), Sophos Pantazis (Datsun 240Z) and Fred Konig (Volkswagen Scirocco). The Historic Single Seater brigade will include Ian Schofield (March 77B), Josh Dovey (Chevron B20), Shaun Cabrita (Titan), Alan Kernick (Reynard F3), Des Hillary (Dulon), Alan Grant (Lotus FF), Ben van der Westhuizen (Royale) and Clive Winterstein (Elva). Heading up the contemporary part of the day will be two G&H Transport races, with Franco Scribante (Porsche 911), Charl Arangies (Audi R8), Jonathan du Toit (Lamborghini Huracan), Chris Budnik (Dodge Viper), Xolile Letlaka (Lamborghini Huracan), Nicky Dicks (Porsche 911 GT3) and Marius Jackson (Audi R8) in the mix. The BMW M Performance races will have 53 competitors, with top contenders like Arrie van den Berg (BMW M3 Turbo), Andreas Meier (BMW 318 STC), Renier Smith (BMW M3 Turbo), Rob Gearing (BMW 335i), Fabio Fedetto (BMW M4), Leon Loubser (BMW 335i) and William Einkamerer (BMW 335i). Rudolf de Vos will certainly win the Midvaal Historic races in his Chevrolet Firenza CanAm, chased by people like Martin Botha (Ford Escort), Jimbo Bennet (Ford Capri), Mario Rossi (Alfa Romeo GTV6), Werner Kotze (Datsun 1200 GX Coupe) and Andre de Lange (Opel Kadett). Rounding out the programme will be two Morgenrood Group Pursuit races, with likely winners people like Stan Stacey (Ford Cortina), Rob van Aarle (Ford Escort), Werner Hartzenberg (Porsche 916), Machiel Oberholzer (Mercedes-Benz 190E) and Johann Smith (Nissan Skyline). Action at Zwartkops will commence on the Friday, with all classes participating in practice and qualifying sessions. All the racing will take place on the Saturday, starting early in the morning.  As always, spectators will be welcome to visit the pits on foot at any time, with the circuit’s Mini Moke trains running between the pit gate and the various spectator points throughout the day. Food and drink will be on sale or you may take your own, and you may braai on the grass banks along the back straight. Admission will cost R200 per adult, R120 for students and kids under 12 get in free. You can find out more at www.zwartkops.co.za or enquire at info@zwartkops.co.za. The circuit’s office number is 012 384 2299.