On 24 December, a tanker transporting 60 000 litres of liquid petroleum gas jammed under a bridge, subsequently detonating.  Daily at first – and now weekly – the death toll continues to rise, confirmed at 38 as of yesterday. The civilian death toll now rates higher than the police killing of 34 miners at Marikana on 16 August, 2012.  ALSO READ: Boksburg tanker explosion death toll rises to 37 This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. This is a modal window. This modal can be closed by pressing the Escape key or activating the close button. Just as no one will forget Mgcineni Noki – The Man in the Green Blanket – so, too, will the images of people emerging from the smoke with their skin coming off crying “help me” remain.  Rosetta Brits’ four children died in the Boksburg explosion. Lincoln Kali lost three family members. Moshimane Billyboy Mahoa is one of 12 Tambo Memorial Hospital staff who have died since the explosion.  He was “a dedicated employee who has been on sick leave for only five days in the last the last 12 years he has worked as a driver at Tambo Memorial Hospital”.  RELATED: Lessons from Boksburg blast not heeded This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. This is a modal window. This modal can be closed by pressing the Escape key or activating the close button. Last week, a leaked copy of the report noted when emergency services arrived, flames were already visible at the top of the tanker. It took an hour for the tanker to finally explode. The force of the explosion was reportedly felt up to four kilometres away.  Hopefully, the class action lawsuit announced yesterday by RH Lawyers Incorporated for the explosion will provide answers the families need – and deserve. READ MORE: Joburg firm helps families file class action law suit over Boksburg explosion This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. This is a modal window. This modal can be closed by pressing the Escape key or activating the close button.