Mamelodi Sundowns’ winning run makes it easy for Kaizer Chiefs to know what they are capable of, according to defender Sifiso Hlanti.  ALSO READ: Chiefs believe they can win the league, says Mokwena Sundowns have gone on an 11-game winning run and are nwt 14 points clear at the top of the DStv Premiership standings.  Chiefs are the next team to try and stop Sundowns’ deadly run towards their twelfth DStv Premiership league title – and sixth in a row.  The two sides meet at FNB Stadium on Saturday night at 8pm in what is expected to be a thrilling game. “Before we move on, we need to give credit to Sundowns,” said Hlanti this week. “They have played 11 games without losing, which is a good thing.  “That makes us aware of what they are capable of. But we are not putting ourselves under pressure. The task we have needs mental strengt, which is something we are working on. “We are united, we are one team and we are fully prepared,” added the former Bidvest Wits and AmaZulu FC defender.  Chiefs go into the match still reeling from a devastating 4-0 loss to AmaZulu last weekend. Hlanti believes they need to completely forget that game. “We all know that I was suspended in the previous game. Also the results were not favourable and that was painful for everyone.  “But that is past now. It is gone and it is no use talking about it because this is the game of football and some things happen for a reason.  “We always play to win but at times things don’t go the way you want. It was one of those things,” added Hlanti. In the first round, Sundowns humiliated Amakhosi 4-0, but Hlanti says they are not thinking about that or avenging that result going to Saturday’s game.  “No. I will not say it is a grudge match because every game we play is competitive, especially for us at Kaizer Chiefs.  “It is more of a challenge that needs us to be united and do our best while respecting the game. It is not going to be easy but we are well prepared.” Chiefs have lost two in a row, something Hlanti feels they need to change but understands will take mental strength to achieve.  “Losing two games in a row is never a great feeling because we know the task we have as players.  “I think as the senior players we need to play a role in bringing back the feeling and atmosphere in the team.  “At the end of the day, it is not the end of the world. We know very well that we need to collect points as much as we can.  “But if things don’t go the way we want, we need to accept and move on. Even though that is not easy, we need to stay together and be positive,” added the Chiefs man.