Africa’s most significant reality show Big Brother Titans kicked off on Sunday as the housemates were revealed with much fanfare. Big Brother Titans features 20 brand-new contestants from Nigeria and South Africa, a fusion of Big Brother Mzansi and Big Brother Naija.  This has only ever occurred in Europe.  The season aired on the 24/7 on DStv Channel 198 and GOtv Channel 29.  The grand prize for the lucky winner, in the end, is US$100 000 around R1.7 million.  The show is already a big hit on social media, as it was the number trending topic on Twitter on Monday.  Khosi (South Africa) A journalist from KwaZulu-Natal but living in Johannesburg says she will be bringing the most drama this season.  She has been described as a talkative and open-minded person.  Yemi Cregx (Nigeria) His looks isnt the only thing grabbing the attention of the Big Brother household, however, the tall, dark and handsome model says he’s more than his looks.  Originally from Ekiti State in Nigeria, Yemi is an actor, and model and says his in touch with his emotions. Yemi says his form of drama will be his fashion statements and possibly love triangles.   Incase you’re wondering where you know Yemi from ????#BBTitans pic.twitter.com/OnYP8c7yul— #BBTitans (@badinfluenceo1) January 15, 2023 Siya aka Juicy Jay (SA) Juicy Jay is a semi-professional rugby player from the Eastern Cape. His affectionate and his vibrate personality is already a hit among viewers.  The 24 year old admits he will be the troublemaker this season.  Go Juicy Jay…. its thabang's facial for me ???????????? #BBTitan #BBTitans pic.twitter.com/IUBIQOw4yG— denιм вy мarg (@deminbymargg) January 16, 2023 Olivia (Nigeria) An aspiring actress from Imo State in Nigeria described as the glam girl, says she will showcase her bold energy and watching her, it’s going to “be a movie.” Nelisa (SA) Originally from the Eastern Cape, Nelisa says she is “chaos” and tends to wear her heart on her sleeve but can be a sweetheart.  Africa and the World. It's go time. Hope you're ready for me. My Name is Nelisa. I'm from the Eastern Cape. This is my official twitter Account. My journey, Our journey begins now ????????#BBTitans#GiantsAreComing#BigBrotherTitans pic.twitter.com/vASynn8ZxS— Nelisa Msila #BBTitans (@Nelisamorelife) January 15, 2023 Blaqboi (Nigeria) Blaqboi, 26, is an aspiring filmmaker and is originally from Plateau State, Nigeria, he is the needed calm, cool and collected character in the Big Brother Titans household.  He hopes his zen nature will win the hearts of fans.  Mmeli (SA) The self-described party animal, the 25-year-old born and bred in Hillbrow is a model and a content creator.  A fan of the show, Mmeli says he is a “seasonal conspirator” and we can expect plenty of South African slang from his vocabulary.  Nana (Nigeria) 22-year-old Nana is an entrepreneur and her personality is that of a soft-spoken person. Ipeleng (SA) Ipeleng is a 24-year-old from the North West and is a law student however is an aspiring content creator.  #BBTitans #BigBrotherTitans how pretty is she pic.twitter.com/aDmeDWWywn— Mamosotho (@NalediMokalake) January 15, 2023 Marvin (Nigeria) A chemical engineer with modelling as a side hustle, the 29-year-old currently lives in the United States.  ALSO READ: Big Brother Titans: Winner to go home with R1.7 million He has a bit of history in television, he was a contestant on America’s Got Talent. Marvin says he is going to be himself, being unique and making friends.  Fans recognize Big Brother Titans housemate, Marvin from Americans Got Talents ???? #BBTitans #BBTitan Follow @thebbtitans for more pic.twitter.com/z7qNB82Sdb— Big Brother Titans (@thebbtitans) January 16, 2023 Thabang (SA) The youngest in the cast, Thabang, 21 is from Soweto and is a sports data analyst.  Jaypee (Nigeria) A nurse, and also a model Jaypee is a lover of love. Jaypee says she loves having conversations, and hosting parties and will make a “super housemate”.  Yaya (SA) From the Eastern Cape, Yaya says she will be exposing her fellow housemates. The plus size model is talkative and has a big, bold personality.  Ebubu (Nigeria) Ebubu from Anambra State in Nigeria is an actor and model with a dynamic personality.  His character has been described as resilient calm, and determined also marks his personality. Living with albinism, Ebubu’s inclusion in the cast has been praised.  Thank you @DStv, thank you #BBTitans for such a bold statement with the inclusion of someone like Ebubu. Representation is sooooo key ????❤️❤️❤️❤️. Oh man I love this!!!!!! ????????— Refilwe Modiselle (@vanillablaq) January 15, 2023 Khehla aka Lukay (SA) Lukay, a 31-year-old from KZN is a sales executive who is both empathetic and brutally honest.  He says he will showcase enjoyment through pranks and plenty of laughs.  Jenni O (Nigeria) A health and safety specialist based in the US, originally from Imo State in Nigeria, Jenni O says she is a no-nonsense type of person and open-minded. Tsatsii (SA) The Pretoria native, currently studying engineering, biotechnology and microbiology says she is grounded however don’t try to cross her.  Kanaga Jnr (Nigeria) Another aspiring actor, model Kanaga Jnr boyish charm could cause much trouble in the Big Brother Titans house.  The 24 year old says he is sensitive and loves older women.  Justin (SA) Happy-Go-Lucky in his deemer, Justin a 21-year-old from East London and says he entered because he didn’t see coloured housemates in the past.  Justin  #BBTitans pic.twitter.com/uWPeEv7sWE— BBTitans_ updates (@BB_titan_update) January 15, 2023 Yvonne (Nigeria) The quintessential “soft life” queen Yvonne is a content creator from Imo State in Nigeria.  Her entry is in hopes to give her family a better life and a break in the entertainment industry.  I knew I saw this somewhere before????#BBTitans pic.twitter.com/0qW1B9ZZFf— MPG (@jadefrannces) January 15, 2023 Yemi Cregz ooo! Super proud seeing you on that stage! #BBTitans I’m glued to this one… Yemi bad guy … pic.twitter.com/BUUPGBRhmn— Juliet Ibrahim (@julietibrahim) January 15, 2023 Nigerians are not happy with their girlsSouth Africans are not happy with their guys Perfect Balance ???????? #BBTitans #BigBrotherTitans pic.twitter.com/S3EQOID61Y— ???????????????? (@TheePrincess9) January 15, 2023 It’s time, we can no longer wait. A diamond has found its way to where it belongs. Meet Yvonne Godswill Awanga. She is here and ready to give Africans a SHOW.Vonnestars, it’s show time!Let’s gooooooo #BBtitans #VonneStars pic.twitter.com/LlmCQb7rf3— -Yvonne. (@Yvonne_Godswill) January 15, 2023