Businesswoman and Royal AM football club owner Shauwn ‘MamMkhize’ Mkhize’s home was a crime scene on Saturday afternoon.  It was reported by TimesLive that security guards foiled an attempted burglary of Mkhize’s triple-storey home in La Lucia, in KwaZulu-Natal.  Three burglars were involved, one was injured, and the two others got away without any of Mkhize’s possessions, KwaZulu-Natal police spokesperson Col Robert Netshiunda told  TimesLive.  Mkhize’s family home is divided into two wings, the north and south, shown in their reality show on DStv channel Mzansi Magic,Kwa Mam’Mkhize.  Mkhize is still living in the mansion with her ex-husband, controversial businessman Sbu Mpisane, albeit in separate wings, it has been previously reported.  “The woman lives in the northern part and the man in the southern part because they are going through a divorce. It is in the southern part where the man lives where the robbers tried to strike,” Netshiunda said. An investigation into the attempted burglary is ongoing, residents reported hearing gunshots.  The triple-story home was estimated to be valued at R25 million in 2013. It reportedly features an entertainment pad, a showroom for more than 60 cars, indoor and outdoor swimming pools and guest sections.  Mkhize and her son Royal AM chairperson Andile Mpisane have been seen in a fleet of Rolls Royces, Mercedes Benzes and Bentleys.  A video was posted last October on MamMkhize’s Instagram page, of her having a pool party at the mansion with her daughter Sbahle Mpisane, Tamia and other family members and friends.  ALSO READ: Everything you need to know about Bloem Celtic… Uhm… Royal AM boss, Mam’Mkhize The family was on vacation in the Maldives at the Kandima Resort. Other family members who joined the Royal AM president, included her daughter Sbahle Mpisane, and Nosipho Ngubo.  Her son Andile Mpisane and his wife Tamia Mpisane enjoyed a romantic getaway in Paris, France.  The family returned to South Africa last week.  MamMkhize was photographed with industry friends at a popular club lounge Max’s Lifestyle Village all-white party on Saturday.  Complied by Sandisiwe Mbhele