It was a deja vu situation for Hendrik “Pule” Ekstein when he was demoted to train with the youth teams at AmaZulu FC, as the same happened at his former team.  ALSO READ: Marumo Gallants snatch draw to move off bottom in South Africa Ekstein has revealed that the same had happened at his previous club where he was made to train with the DStv Diski Challenge team.  While Ekstein did not mention Kaizer Chiefs by name, it is clear it was at Naturena where he was sent to the south wing to train with the youngsters.  He had a fallout with management when he wanted an improved offer for him to renew his contract at Amakhosi.  The same thing has happened to him at AmaZulu where he had been training with the DDC team until recently.  He was saved when assistant coach Ayanda Dlamini recommended him and Thabo Qalinge when coach Romain Folz said he needed attack minded players with some experience.   “For me, it was not something new,” said Ekstein this week. “It was done to me even at my previous clubs, I will however not call them by name.  “But I was made to train with the youngsters after being demoted from the first team. So, it is something not new to me.  “It is about having a strong mentality and focus… knowing what you want. So, it was not a difficult time for me.”ALSO READ: Under fire AmaZulu coach Folz not worried about sack Ekstein has been back with the senior team and made an impact in their last game, leaving Folz impressed. “I am happy. The coach found me training with the youngsters in the DDC team and he told me he is going to trust me.  “He told me that he knows I can play football and that is what I am doing… I am trying to reward his faith. He believes in me,” said Ekstein.  Ekstein will be expected to dish out another big performance when Usuthu host his former team Chiefs at Moses Mabhida Stadium in Durban on Friday evening.  “It will obviously be a tough game because of the way Chiefs play. They will want to win as they lost the last game.  “But we also lost. So, both teams want the three points. I just hope that it is us who get them.  “What I can promise the supporters is that I will work hard. And based on the support I get from the players and coaches, I believe things will go well for me.  “It is however not only about me but the entire team. But If I do well, the team does well and with that we can achieve more,” added Ekstein.