Renowned Saudi Arabian Cleric Sheikh Maher Al Muayqali has praised the warmth of South Africans and urged them to be tolerant and strive for unity. The Islamic scholar, who hails from Makkah in the kingdom, is one of many Imams (one who leads the prayer) in the Haram or the grand mosque. Over a thousand people packed the Masjid-us-Salaam Mosque in Laudium on Friday to welcome Sheikh Al Muayqali. The Islamic scholar is currently visiting South Africa as a guest of the Saudi Arabian embassy in Pretoria. While South Africa and the world face many challenges, Sheikh Al Muayqali advised people to be tolerant of each other. “Verily tolerance is from the qualities of the believers, and from the hallmark of brotherhood. Islam has encouraged adornment of character of tolerance in our communities and has placed it at the level of worship. “Tolerance is what produces communities which are governed by love and mercy, by cooperation and unity. With tolerance faith is strengthened, and unity is achieved,” he said. ALSO READ: SA pays tribute to Saudi Arabia on 92nd Saudi National Day Sheikh Al Muayqali also urged people to treat each other with respect. “Treat others as you would like to be treated, be merciful and mercy will be shown to you, tolerate and you will be tolerated, for definitely your reward is only from your action.” South Africa and the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia enjoy mutual relations on various levels. The Saudi Arabian Ambassador to South Africa Sultan Al Angari highlighted the relationship between the two countries during the 92nd Saudi National Day at the Sheraton Hotel in Pretoria last year. Al Angari said as Saudi Arabia celebrated the importance of its national day, it also celebrated the continuation of friendly relations between the kingdom and South Africa. “Through long history, the two countries have witnessed great development in various fields including politics, economy, recreation, culture, information technology among others.” Last year, President Cyril Ramaphosa embarked on a state visit to the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia at the invitation of the Custodian of the Two Holy Mosques, King Salman bin Abdulaziz Al-Saud. Ramaphosa was hosted by HRH Crown Prince and Prime Minister of the Kingdom Mohammad bin Salman bin Abdulaziz al Saud. Ramaphosa said just as Saudi Arabia was positioned as the gateway to the Middle East and to the region, South Africa was the gateway to a dynamic continent with great prospects. He said trade between the two countries had reached $5 billion, and believed this could be increased further in the next few years. The two nations signed 11 agreements and Memoranda of Understanding to boost investment in energy, water, green hydrogen, waste diversion, and logistics at the Saudi-South African Investment Forum in Jeddah.   ALSO READ: SA a ‘favourable, reliable and stable place’ to conduct business – Ramaphosa