With an eye already on their 100th birthday celebrations in 2032, AmaZulu FC have set the ball rolling on their plans.  ALSO READ: Lack of goals at Chiefs gives Sekgota sleepless nights This will obviously be a big year for the Durban club to reach 100 years still active. Wits came close but were folded in their 99th year.  The plans that have been set in motion however are not just celebratory, but they are to ensure that the team is doing well on the field.  That is why AmaZulu have appointed Bafana Bafana and PSL legends Andile Cele, Mbulelo Mabizela and Reneilwe Letsholonyane among others as coaches in their academy.  According to the club, the aim is to ensure that by 2032 the team boasts home grown talent who will be winning things for the side. Usuthu’s director Mfundo Zungu said it was the club president Sandile Zungu’s vision to see the club producing its own talent. “One of president Sandile Zungu’s wishes, besides results, achievements and winning trophies by 2032 which is the club’s centenary year, the majority of the squad must be home-grown talent. “We were very intentional with the recruitment process of the people we have brought in,” said Mfundo during the unveiling of their new academy coaches.  ALSO READ: AmaZulu unveil Letsholonyane and OJ as academy coaches “And we wanted good and qualified people who believe in the vision and want to be here for the long-term.  “We want to use a science backed approach and we intend to mirror what we’ve studied, be it from the first team and international academies to yield favourable outcomes for AmaZulu.”  Since the Zungus took over the ownership of AmaZulu from Patrick Sokhela a few years ago, the side has grown significantly.  AmaZulu have become a force yet again in the top flight and have been reinforced with some quality and experienced players.  Among some top names who have been brought in are Thabo Qalinge, Hendrick Ekstein and Ramahlwe Mphahlele. ALSO READ: Zwane and co suspended for weekend games In the first season with the Zungus in charge, AmaZulu finished second, the highest the club has ever finished in the PSL era. Before that, they had been relegation candidates of note.  They are currently eighth in the DStv Premiership standings with 22 points after 17 games and Zungu has big ambitions with the club.