Searching for news and information via social networks has become a common practice among young users. Twitter intends to strengthen its position in this regard by improving its search engine on its mobile application. Younger generations prefer to turn to TikTok and Instagram rather than Google for online searches. And Twitter is hoping to take advantage of this phenomenon.  The social network, which has been the subject of a lot of bad buzz in recent weeks, has been working on developing its advanced search engine to offer a host of new options. Users will be able to select specific dates, focus on specific accounts, or hashtags and mentions, as well as opt to only search for content from people they follow on Twitter or people located in a certain geographic area.  Matt Navarra, social network specialist and analyst, unveiled a preview of this new advanced search engine on his Twitter account: “FINALLY… This is Twitter’s NEW In-App Advanced Search feature. Coming soon on iOS,” he commented. These advanced search features are already available when using Twitter via a computer. After performing an initial search, one simply clicks on the three little dots next to the search bar to select “advanced search.”  ALSO READ: Twitter suspends accounts of journalists covering Musk This allows a user to specify the words they are searching for, as well as hashtags, date, accounts and even add filters such as “only show Tweets with links” or “only show replies.” Improving the search engine on Twitter’s mobile application is strategic for Elon Musk who had already expressed his thoughts on the subject in November 2022: “Search within Twitter reminds me of Infoseek in ’98! That will also get a lot better pronto.”  Key since young people use their smartphone more than their computer to go on the internet and in particular when it comes to social media. While the project of improving Twitter search functions is underway, no roll-out date has been mentioned. So far, users searching on Twitter’s mobile app can only hide sensitive content or remove blocked and hidden accounts.  They can also choose to filter responses by choosing to focus on either tweets from all users or those from accounts they follow, as well as manage location by choosing either “everywhere” or “nearby.” Search within Twitter reminds me of Infoseek in ‘98! That will also get a lot better pronto.— Elon Musk (@elonmusk) November 5, 2022