Here’s your morning news update: An easy-to-read selection of our top stories. Stay up to date with The Citizen – More News, Your Way. African National Congress (ANC) president Cyril Ramaphosa says South Africa is not a place for racism following the Maselspoort Resort incident. Ramaphosa delivered the ANC’s January 8 statement at the Dr Petrus Molemela Stadium in Mangaung, Free State on Sunday. The celebrations marked ANC’s 111th anniversary since its formation in 1912. Addressing the crowd alongside the two boys who were allegedly the victims of a racially motivated attack on Christmas Day, Ramaphosa yet again expressed concern over racist incidents in the country. The first case of the new highly transmissible Covid omicron variant has been detected in South Africa. On Saturday, the Department of Health said it had been alerted to the presence of the new XBB.1.5 variant and was meeting with scientists to get more information on its transmissibility and severity. The department said it is meeting with scientists to gather more information on the highly transmissible variant. This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. This is a modal window. This modal can be closed by pressing the Escape key or activating the close button. Adriaan Vlok, the minister of law and order as well as correctional services during apartheid, passed away early on Sunday morning. Family spokesperson Peet Bothma said Vlok died, after a short illness, at the Unitas Hospital in Centurion, Pretoria. He was 85 years old. University of Fort Hare (UFH) vice-chancellor professor Sakhela Buhlungu has called on President Cyril Ramaphosa for protection after his bodyguard was shot dead. Mboneli Vesele was killed in a hail of bullets outside Buhlungu’s Alice residence on Friday, in what is suspected to have been an assassination attempt. Police are investigating the incident. Higher Education Minister Blade Nzimande noted on Saturday that all indications were that the assailant or assailants were targeting Buhlungu. A wanted Mozambican kidnapping kingpin has been arrested, the South African Police Service (Saps) has confirmed. Esmael Malude Ramos Nangy was nabbed by police together Interpol, following a raid late on Saturday at “an upmarket estate” in Centurion, Pretoria. The suspect stands accused of orchestrating kidnappings in Mozambique that netted several million dollars over the past two decades.  Actress Enhle Mbali Mlotshwa is facing a mammoth lawsuit brought by a photographer for posting her own photos. The freelance photographer Cyan Haribhai alleges she took photos of Enhle at South African Fashion Week but Enhle reposted them without her permission.  The Proteas at least spared themselves one last round of smarmy remarks about their abilities as they secured a draw in the third and final Test against Australia at the Sydney Cricket Ground on Sunday. Having already lost the series 2-0, South Africa needed to bat through the final day with 14 wickets in hand. Simon Harmer and Keshav Maharaj showed some stout resistance in the lower-order as the Proteas made 255 in their first innings.