Rumoured back in 2019 as heading for possible production in 2022 or 2023, Kia’s highly anticipated new bakkie has once again been pictured in South Korea. The clearest image yet of the automaker’s rival for the Toyota Hilux, Ford Ranger, Isuzu D-Max, Volkswagen Amarok, Nissan Navara, Mitsubishi Triton and Mazda BT-50 to emerge, the single depiction sees the still unnamed newcomer sporting heavy layers of black masking that appears similar to that of the initial spying in November. Snapped by South Korea’s autopsy.net, some clues to the final product are however visible, namely the grille and headlights derived from the Mohave SUV, a double cab bodystyle and a noticeable long loadbin. While little else is known about the newcomer at present, speculation is that its apparent resemblance to the Mohave will lead to it being based on the SUV’s platform, which utilises a body-on-frame construction similar to the Toyota Fortuner and Prado, Ford Everest, Isuzu MU-X and Mitsubishi Pajero Sport. Branded as a “sensitive topic” within the halls of Kia, and denied as happening for real on a number of occasions previously, only for a subsequent u-turn to be made, the bakkie’s Mohave links are set to include not only a similar interior, but also drivetrains. In South Korea, motivation comes from a single 3.0-litre turbodiesel V6 engine that delivers 191kW/560Nm to all four corners via an eight-speed automatic gearbox. ALSO READ: Spy images confirm Kia bakkie testing for the first time Should this unit be considered, the Kia bakkie would be pitted directly against the Ranger and Amarok twins, whose similarly sized Lion bent-six oil-burner produces less power at 184 kW, but more torque at 600 Nm. Another likely option is the 2.2-litre turbodiesel that powers the Sorento, Hyundai Santa Fe, Staria and Palisade, as well as the 205kW/588Nm 3.0-litre straight-six turbodiesel Hyundai’s Genesis marque uses in the GV80 SUV. Despite being a speculation shrouded model at present, what is known is that the bakkie has caught the eye of Kia South Africa while in the planning stages. “If it becomes available in the global line-up, it will come to South Africa whichever one it is. It has been on the five-year plan for about 20 years [and] it is being looked at very carefully,” Kia South Africa CEO Gary Scott told The Citizen on the side-lines of the Seltos’ market launch in Cape Town three years ago. For the time being, until an official release by Kia as either a teaser image or information, expect more spy shots to emerge as the year progresses.