Here’s your morning news update: An easy-to-read selection of our top stories. Stay up to date with The Citizen – More News, Your Way A group of attorneys and political parties led by Mbuza Attorneys have written a letter of demand to public enterprises minister, Pravin Gordhan, and Eskom demanding an end to load shedding. They are demanding that there be no load shedding without procedural fairness and a fair opportunity to make alternative arrangements to affected persons and businesses. The clients include United Democratic Movement (UDM) leader – Bantu Holomisa, Build One South Africa founder – Mmusi Maimane, and the Inkatha Freedom Party (IFP) amongst others. Two suspects were found dead near Kibler Park in the south of Johannesburg after they allegedly attempted to steal fuel from a Transnet pipeline over the weekend. One of the bodied was found in a “structure” not far from the crime scene, while another was found in a tunnel leading to Transnet’s petroleum pipeline, said Transnet Pipelines in a statement. The two suspects were “overcome by fumes” while trying siphon fuel from the pipeline on Saturday night. The tunnel and “structure” were demolished the following day. Results for the Independent Examination Board’s grade examinations will be released as soon as the clock strikes 00:01 on Wednesday, 18 January. Matriculants who sat for the exams last year will be able to access their results right here, on The Citizen‘s matric result portal. Just when we thought we had a brief respite from the drama of Black Coffee and Enhle Mbali Mlotshwa’s messy breakup, the pair declared on their respective social media accounts, that they were ready for some tell-all interviews to further air out the dirty laundry of their marriage.  Tweeting from Mexico, the booked and busy DJ (real name Nkosinathi Maphumulo) said, “Ready to come and chill Gents @Solphendukaa @MacGUnleashed”.  Though he did not state what he was planning on speaking to the Podcast and Chill hosts about, Black Coffee sent Twitter into a frenzy with many assuming that the interview would be about his ex-wife and his recent series of tweets lamenting one of her posts over the festive season.  Chelsea eased the pressure on manager Graham Potter with a 1-0 win over Crystal Palace as Newcastle struck late to beat Fulham 1-0 and move up to third in the Premier League on Sunday.Kai Havertz scored the only goal at Stamford Bridge with a towering second half header on the day Chelsea paid tribute to former player and manager Gianluca Vialli. The Italian great died earlier this month aged 58 from pancreatic cancer.