Here’s your morning news update: An easy-to-read selection of our top stories. Stay up to date with The Citizen – More News, Your Way. President Cyril Ramaphosa has filed a replying affidavit in his application for an urgent interdict against private prosecution by former president Jacob Zuma, accusing his predecessor of “deliberately misconceiving” the grounds on which his case is made. Ramaphosa also said Zuma’s affidavit contained “unfounded political innuendos” that are not relevant to his application. Eskom says it will ramp up load shedding to stage 6 on Tuesday night until Wednesday morning. Stage 6 nightly load shedding will then be implemented from 4pm to 5am until further notice, while stage 4 load shedding will be implemented from 5am to 4pm daily until further notice. According to the power utility, seven units tripped on Tuesday, of which three have returned to service.  This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. This is a modal window. This modal can be closed by pressing the Escape key or activating the close button. A Johannesburg-based law firm has announced it will institute legal action against various stakeholders possibly liable for the Christmas Eve gas tanker explosion in Boksburg that claimed the lives of 37 people. RH Lawyers Incorporated on Tuesday said it was instructed by at least 20 affected people, including those seriously injured in the tanker explosion, to pursue a possible class action suit. ALSO READ: Boksburg tanker explosion death toll rises to 37 The legal action is directed at the company that owns the truck that was involved in the tanker explosion, Infinite Fleet Transport, and the outsourcing company that hired the truck driver, Innovative Staff Solutions. This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. This is a modal window. This modal can be closed by pressing the Escape key or activating the close button. Barely 24 hours after being elected as mayor of the troubled Ditsobotla Local Municipality, the Patriotic Alliance’s (PA) Itumeleng Elizabeth Lethoko has resigned from the post. Lethoko was elected as mayor on Monday during a council sitting in Mahikeng, an hour’s drive from Lichtenburg-headquartered Ditsobotla. The PA said it supports Lethoko’s decision to resign from her post mere hours after being elected. The Jacob Zuma Foundation has thrown down the gauntlet ahead of the application brought by President Cyril Ramaphosa against the former president. The foundation’s Mzwanele Manyi is drumming up support for the case which was initially scheduled to be heard in the Johannesburg High Court on Tuesday. However, the case is now expected to be heard on Thursday, 12 January 2023, after a postponement on Monday. DJ and media personality Lamiez Holworthy-Morule has continued to detail her pregnancy experience and calling out haters on what women experience during this precious time.  Lamiez is expecting her first child with her husband Khuli Chana and has been honest about experiencing changes in her body and journaling her journey.  Taking to her Instagram to admire her mini art gallery with artworks by Sthu Manaka in her home. The Sharks and Lions’ postponed United Rugby Championship matches from last October will now be played at the end of next month. The round six fixtures when the Sharks were due to host Ulster and the Lions were set to entertain Glasgow Warriors were called off at the last minute in October due to severe illness in the European teams’ camps. ALSO READ: Stormers boss Dobson on last-gasp defeat: ‘A very bad day at the offfice’ The rearranged fixtures will now take place in between round 14 and round 15 on Saturday, February 25. This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. This is a modal window. This modal can be closed by pressing the Escape key or activating the close button.