One of the movie classics by famed and award-winning director James Cameron, Titanic, is returning to the big screen in South Africa.  Disney Africa made the exciting announcement on Wednesday, that Cameron’s multi-award-winning film starring young actors at the time, Leonardo DiCaprio and Kate Winslet, will be shown in cinema to allow fans and first-time watchers to see the 1997 classic all over again.  The Titanic movie will be re-released in two formats 3D 4K HDR and high-frame-rate. The story follows Jake (DiCaprio) and Rose’s (Winslet) ill-fated voyage of the “unsinkable” Titanic, at the time, the largest moving object ever built. The films made the main actors pretty famous and having longevity in their careers ever since. Both Winslet and DiCaprio have won Oscars for different roles, made box office movies and are considered one of the best actors in the industry.  Titanic’s plethora of awards include winning a record 11 Academy Awards including Best Picture, Best Director, Best Cinematography, Best Film Editing and Best Original Song for the iconic song My Heart Will Go On by Celine Dion. The movie will be released in the cinema on 10 February, with a remastered version.  This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. This is a modal window. This modal can be closed by pressing the Escape key or activating the close button. Director James Cameron has had massive success since Titanic most notably the world of Avatar.  Currently Cameron’s sequel, Avatar: The Way of the Water a Disney/20th Century blockbuster following the story of a blue-skinned race on a distant moon has impressively earned $570 million, on top of an international total of $1.33 billion. The Way of Water, a sequel to the 2009 film that was the top grosser ever, could be the first film to hit $2 billion worldwide since the Covid-19 pandemic.  ALSO READ: ‘Avatar’ sequel leads in North America, passes $1 billion globally The synopsis is set in the mid-22nd century when humans are colonising Pandora, a lush habitable moon of a gas giant in the Alpha Centauri star system, to mine the valuable mineral unobtanium.  Stars of the film include Zoe Saldana as Neytiri and Sam Wellington as Jake Sully who reprised their roles.  Compiled by Sandisiwe Mbhele, additional reporting by AFP.