It’s three wins in a row for Orlando Pirates after another good performance saw them edge Marumo Gallants 2-0 at the Royal Bafokeng Stadium on Saturday night. ALSO READ: ‘We take responsibility for bad run,’ says Chiefs attacker Sekgota The Sea Robbers were able to brush off Golden Arrows and Stellenbosch FC prior to the Gallants clash. Following the win Pirates, remained in fourth place on the log with 28 points after 18 games. Gallants, meanwhile, will stay at the bottom of the standings as they continue getting unfavourable results. Dan Malesela’s charges have only collected 15 points in their last 20 games.The Buccaneers seemed to be in control of the game, with the visitors making a number of attacks, which they could have easily put away, but they just didn’t put their chances in the back of the net. Gallants, on the other hand, were trying to step up their game with the home side making some nice touches in the middle, but they were finding it hard to break down the Bucs back four. After numerous times of trying their luck in front of goals, Terrence Dzvukamanja passed the ball to Monnapule Saleng inside the box and the midfielder made no mistake and put the ball into the back of the net to make it 1-0 for Pirates. Pirates finished the half looking likely to get a second goal, while Gallants also got a chance with Katlego Otladisa, but it didn’t count. In the second half, Pirates still looked stronger than Gallants, with the Soweto giants pushing for a second goal. Bucs were awarded a penalty six minutes after the hour mark when Bandile Shandu was brought down inside the box. ALSO READ: PSL fines Pirates R50 000 for watering pitch ahead of Arrows tie Former Gallants midfielder Ndabayithethwa Ndlondlo stood up to take the spot-kick and made no mistake as he gave the visitors a 2-0 lead, which ended up sealing the victory for Jose Riveiro’s men and made it three consecutive wins while Gallants remain in danger of being relegated. In another DStv Premiership match played on Saturday night, Swallows FC and SuperSport United played to a 0-0 draw at the Dobsonville Stadium.