Executive protection officer Mboneli Vesele, who served as body guard to Fort Hare University’s Vice-Chancellor Prof Sakhele Buhlungu has been laid to rest. Vesele was shot dead last Friday night outside the vice-chancellor’s Alice residence in what is suspected to have been an assassination attempt on the professor. Buhlungu was unharmed and was later moved to a secure location. The Ministers’ of Higher Education, Science and Innovation, Dr Blade Nzimande, Police Minister Bheki Cele and and Minister in the Presidency, Mondli Gungubele attended the funeral service. ALSO READ: Bodyguard of University of Fort Hare vice-chancellor shot dead in ‘assassination attempt’ “I remain outraged by this inhumane act which has robbed all of us of this unsung hero. As I said before, I strongly condemn Mr Vesele’s assassination and the threats to the life of the Vice Chancellor, Professor Buhlungu,” said Nzimande in a tweet. Today we laid to rest Mr Mboneli Vesele, the Executive Protection Officer to the University of Fort Hare Vice-Chancellor, Prof Sakhele Buhlungu.I once-more pass my heartfelt condolences to the Vesele Family, Friends and the University of Fort Hare on the murder of Mr Vesele. pic.twitter.com/oTl4OMUPoo— Minister Blade Nzimande (@DrBladeNzimande) January 14, 2023 “We are well aware that Mr Vesele left his wife with children who currently, and in the future, might require our assistance to further their studies. My officials @HigherEduGovZA will be in touch with the family for further engagements,” said Nzimande. Vesele is survived by his wife Bongiwe, and four children – Buntle, Qhama, and twins, Nande and Nathi. ALSO READ: UFH vice-chancellor calls on Ramaphosa for protection after ‘assassination attempt’ Buhlungu’s appointment at Fort Hare in 2016 didn’t sit well with corrupt syndicates fleecing the institution of its resources for years, and bringing governance to near-collapse. The violence started creeping in as the fight to eradicate corruption was ramped up over the years, including the ongoing Special Investigative Unit (SIU) investigation, culminating in last week’s assassination attempt on Buhlungu, which ultimately led to Vesele’s death. Shockingly, this wasn’t the first assassination attempt at the university as a previous one was successful in taking the life of a senior staff member. ALSO READ: Cele sets up task team to probe Fort Hare attacks Protests, corruption, mismanagement and disregard for governance ruled UFH finding fertile ground in the ANC-led Eastern Cape province, which itself is marred by looting and malfeasance. In March 2022, a man was captured on CCTV footage climbing over a wall and firing three shots at Buhlungu’s house. Speaking to TimesLIVE, Roodt said UFH has seen several violent attacks recently after the university started clamping down on corruption. “Last year, shots were fired into the residence of the deputy vice-chancellor for teaching and learning, Prof Renuka Vithal,” he said. On May 19 the university’s fleet and transport manager, Petrus Roets, was shot dead in a suspected hit near the Gonubie off-ramp. *Additional reporting by Getrude Makhafola NOW READ: Fort Hare: Litany of scandals preceded VC’s assassination attempt