Greg Mallett, Former Springbok coach Nick Mallett’s nephew, will be marrying his girlfriend of 11 years, Lady Amelia Spencer, in March. The couple who met while studying at the University of Cape Town still look very much in love, beaming at each other on photographs shared on their respective social media accounts.   Lady Amelia is one of the seven children of Princess Diana’s brother, Charles Spencer. She has a twin sister Lady Eliza and is the first cousin of Prince William and Prince Harry. She moved with her family to Cape Town in 1995. Lady Amelia celebrated her bachelorette party poolside in Cape Town last week before she jetted to Dubai for the opening of new luxury hotel Atlantis The Royal where music sensation Beyoncé headlined the glamorous event.  ALSO SEE: SA celebs in Dubai for the Beyoncé concert Wearing a minidress and crop top in classic bridal white, Lady Amelia was joined by her closest friends and her twin sister Lady Eliza as well as her older sister, Lady Kitty Spencer, who is married to South African businessman Michael Lewis.   The bride-to-be took to Instagram to share some snaps of her hen party, captioning the post: “Dream bachelorette, thank you for one of the best days of my life with my favourite girls.” The groom-to-be took to the comments section to let his future wife know that he cannot wait to marry her. He also took to his Instagram account to share the special moments from his fiancée’s bachelorette party. Greg Mallett is the nephew of former Springbok coach Nick Mallett. His sister, Fiona Viotti, was involved in a sexual misconduct scandal in 2019. The former Bishops Diocesan College teacher was found by the school to have engaged in sexual misconduct with five boys from 2013 to 2019. The SA Council for Educators (SACE), however, closed its file in its probe in 2020 citing ‘a lack of cooperation from witnesses’. Greg is a health, fitness and nutrition guru who relocated to London with Lady Amelia in June 2021. The couple is set to wed in March, but no details about the pending nuptials have been made public as yet.  NOW READ: Ghislaine Maxwell claims Prince Andrew’s photo with abuse accuser is ‘doctored’