The Lions named a strong team to take on Irish club Connacht Rugby in Round 13 of the United Rugby Championship at the Sportsground in Galway on Saturday night. The team from Johannesburg are currently 12th in the log standings, a mere one point behind their hosts who are eleventh. ALSO READ: Lions chasing that 80 minute performance against Connacht Notable changes to the side see flanker Sibusiso Sangweni slot into the No6 jumper with Stean Pienaar getting his opportunity on the right wing, while Quan Horn shifts to fullback. Lions defence coach Jaque Fourie said the team was eager to put in two good halves.  “Looking back at last week’s game, it’s important for us ahead of Connacht to put together two good halves and start playing positive rugby again.” Fourie is familiar with Saturday’s venue, having played at the Sportsground in Galway for the Springboks in 2007 ahead for the Rugby World Cup. “Playing in Galway especially in these conditions will be tough. It’s going to take 23-man effort to achieve a positive result for us. “We’ve had a look at the Connacht side, and we know they are tough side at home.  The goal is to come out firing and as I said, put together two good halves of rugby and hopefully beat them on Saturday night.” Fourie likens playing in these types of conditions to test match rugby where a different approach is required, and Saturday against Connacht will most likely be the case.  “It’s almost like playing test rugby, explains the former Bok centre. You have to take your chances; you need to grab your points and build scoreboard pressure. “Of course, playing in the right areas of the field becomes important. At times, you’ll face winds of around 30km/h which makes kicking into the wind difficult meaning teams need to keep the ball for longer phases.”  Kick-off is at 9:35pm SA time. Lions Quan Horn, Stean Pienaar, Henco van Wyk, Marius Louw (c), Edwill van der Merwe, Jordan Hendrikse, Andre Warner, Emmanuel Tshituka, Emile van Heerden, Sibusiso Sangweni, Darrien Landsberg, Willem Alberts, Asenathi Ntlabakanye, PJ Botha, JP Smith Bench: Michael van Vuuren, Morgan Naude, Ruan Smith, Pieter Jansen van Vuren, Jaco Kriel, Morne van den Berg, Manny Rass, Andries Coetzee