Following the announcement of indefinite stage 6 load shedding, countless South Africans from all walks of life have not only lamented the new reality but wondered just how far the negative effects of such a reality could go.  Local DJ and entrepreneur Tbo Touch (Thabo Molefe) was among those counting the costs of indefinite stage 6 load shedding as he pondered what it would mean for his small business.  “I don’t see my company functioning under stage 6 it’s a serious struggle for SMMEs. I can’t keep up at all! What must happen now? We are headed for even more job losses. Sad reality and I’m the last person to lose hope but I can’t see us surviving this [one],” he tweeted. His tweet inspired others to share their own views on the status quo and what’s to come. Additionally, business owners who head up small enterprises also tweeted about how higher stages of load shedding have impacted them.  We are in trouble for real, 2023 is likely to plunge us into more financial crisis. More job losses, basically we will be in deeper recession.— MahlaseMG (@Mahlase05851900) January 11, 2023 “Agreed. Small businesses can’t handle more hits! We thought the pandemic hit hard.  SA is exhausted. Something’s gotta give,” responded Twitter user @Winelands.  This stage 6 load shedding its an economic lock down ????????I run a small business selling Ice cream and ice cubes !! What puts bread on my table is as good as dead , cant survive this , loosing on ice packages cause the ice are melting I don’t or can’t afford a strong cold room ????— Palesa Ramolobeng (@PalesaRams12) January 11, 2023 No SMME can survive stage 6. No electricity between 8am – 12:30? Then again at 4pm. 3 hours of electricity during working hours? Hai No. Saw a KFC closed during lunch hour????. I feel sad for my country— Tshego (@Tshegoc) January 11, 2023 We are struggling daily, spending upward of R700K in 2022 just on diesel. Already the costs has skyrocketed in the first 11 days. I don’t think our government cares at all.— Master J (@JostaMasterJ) January 12, 2023 On Wednesday, Eskom announced that load shedding would remain at stage 6 continuously until further notice. “Due to the severe capacity constraints, Eskom will continue to manage the limited emergency generation reserves to supplement generation capacity. Eskom will publish a further update as soon as there are any significant changes,” said Eskom in a statement.  The power utility further explained that eleven generators had suffered breakdowns since Tuesday morning, further reducing available capacity and necessitating the increase in the stages of load shedding.  READ NEXT: Eskom imposes stage 6 load shedding until further notice