Entrepreneur and motivational speaker Vusi Thembekwayo and his estranged wife Palesa Mahlolo’s divorce battle is getting uglier.  Mahalo has accused Thembekwayo of being abusive in their relationship, allegations he denied.  The Sunday World reported that the motivational speaker took Maholo to Joburg High Court for “refusing” to sign an offer to sell their vacant land in the ultra-rich estate, Steyn City.  According to the publication the land is estimated to be worth R4 million, and a potential buyer offered R3.6 million to buy it.  The property was reportedly purchased for investment purposes in 2017 and was allegedly nearly repossessed during the entrepreneur’s financial struggles.  In the last few years, Mahalo’s and Thembekwayo’s martial issues have been public knowledge after Maholo’s allegations of physical abuse in 2021.  The motivational speaker claimed that his wife had a long-standing battle with substance abuse. The couple married in community of property in 2020 and are in the process of a divorce.  RELATED: Vusi Thembekwayo denies assaulting his wife In court documents seen by the Sunday World Thembekwayo tried to have the property developed however it didn’t materialise.  “However, Palesa paid no regard to my overtures to have the property sold. From as early as 2021, I made at least three attempts to restructure the loan with the first respondent. The impact of Covid on my finances, as well as having to support two households took a toll on my income,” read the court papers seen by the publication. Thembekwayo said his wife was aware of his financial troubles and claimed she did not want to restructure their property loan with FNB. He said this culminated in FNB instituting legal proceedings against them to attach and sell the property in October last year. He further stated that Mahlolo contacted him via email, asking him why the property was on sale and if this was because of non-payment. “I spoke to Palesa and we agreed that the property would be put up for sale. This agreement was because I persuaded her that if the second respondent executed on the property, we would lose all profits, he said. The estate agent of the property tried to communicate with Maholo without success. “At each turn, I have followed up with Palesa, mostly telephonically, who has promised to get in touch or sign, but she has never taken such a step.” Because of the delays, the offer by the potential buyer expired however Thembekwayo still wants to sell the property.  The businessman said FNB is taking legal action against him and Maholo for the outstanding payments and is in the process of declaring the property executable. The bank reportedly wants to recover R1.3 million, but he still hopes that with an offer such as R3.6 million, they can still make a profit from selling the property located in  Steyn City. The Citizen has reached Thembekwayo for comment and is waiting for a response.