A driver of a petrol tanker had to be rescued from his vehicle after it crashed into bridge on Kliprivier Drive north near the N12 exit, Suideroord, Johannesburg. The accident happened on Saturday after 3pm.   Photos and video footage showed the truck hanging from the bridge. Johannesburg Metropolitan Police Department (JMPD) spokesperson Xolani Fihla said from the preliminary information they received, the tanker crashed and landed on the embankment next to the N12 East. “Two people were driving in a diesel tanker when it hit the bridge. One was rushed off to hospital,” Fihla said. “Hazmat technicians are on the scene to contain the petrol spillage and Emergency Management Services [EMS] is also on the scene for the extrication of the driver from the vehicle.” FIhla said the crash caused road closures on the N12 East at Xavier Street, and N12 West at Comaro Road. Additionally, the Kliprivier Drive was closed in both directions between the N12 West and N12 East exit. The driver of a petrol tanker had to be rescued from his vehicle after it crashed into bridge on Kliprivier Drive north near the N12 exit, Suideroord, Johannesburg. Video: JMPD #DieselTankerCrash #JHBTraffic #Johannesburg @TheCitizen_News pic.twitter.com/ARUT463thp— ???????????????????????? ???????????????????? (@FaizelPatel143) January 7, 2023 The accident comes barely a day after another diesel tanker overturned during a crash on Friday morning in Wadeville, Germiston. Ekurhuleni Disaster and Emergency Management Services spokesperson, William Ntladi, confirmed emergency services were at the scene and managed to contain the leaking. Ntladi said the diesel tanker was carrying 30 000 litres at the time of the crash. READ MORE: Woman arrested for clocking 220km/h in VW Golf 7 He said community members siphoning off the fuel after the crash. “We had to push them away from the incident, remembering what happened a couple of days ago in Boksburg and we managed to bring the situation under control.” Ntladi added the driver of the truck escaped with no injuries and investigations into the crash are underway. The two incidents come almost two weeks after the tragic Boksburg gas tanker explosion on Christmas Eve that claimed the lives of at least 37 people. Additional reporting by Thapelo Lekabe