To get a three-course meal while sitting next to President Cyril Ramaphosa for R1.2 million “a table” may seem atrocious if you think what you can do with that kind of cash.  But who wouldn’t want to have the ear of the president? That money can unlock opportunities if you are smart. That’s why, if I had the money, I would be joining those business people who dine with Ramaphosa and other top ANC officials at Sand du Plessis Theatre in Bloemfontein tomorrow.  This gala dinner is part of the ANC’s 111th anniversary celebrations and will precede the party’s January 8 rally on Sunday. To sit with either ANC deputy president Paul Mashatile or the deputy president in government, David Mabuza, people will have to pay R1 million “a table”.  ALSO READ: ANC could ditch RET as a policy now that Ramaphosa camp rules roost It is not clear who the business people will meet between Mashatile and Mabuza but, judging from the recent gala in Nasrec, Mabuza may again be absent.  Business people will tomorrow rub shoulders with policy makers and can lobby politicians for policies that are pro-business. Even in these economical challenging times, those who attend these fundraisers seem to weather the storms due to their proximity to politicians. That’s why they are supporting the political agenda of a party that is in line with their business interests and well-being.  My intentions to want to attend the event are different. Since Ramaphosa rarely takes media questions, I would use the opportunity to discuss the poor state of the nation.  Over starters, I would ask why he is so keen to hand Eskom to the private sector instead of dealing with the crippling power crisis. I will make him aware that unprecedented load shedding will make the ANC lose power if there’s no improvement before 2024 elections. ALSO READ: Ramaphosa’s January 8 Statement must ‘deal with useless ministers’, say alliance partners Over the main course, I would ask why his government allowed South African Airways to be privatised as this is making it hard for ordinary people to catch a flight and is also impacting on tourism. Also, what is he doing to ensure the country never turns into a welfare state due to the high unemployment?  As we enjoy dessert and champagne, I will hope this will sweeten the next question: why does he think he’s the perfect face for the ANC in the 2024 elections if he is not willing to clear his name on the Phala Phala theft scandal?  I would point out this issue may be another nail in the ANC’s coffin if the party continues to shield him.  But unfortunately, I, like the majority of South Africans, don’t have such a privilege. Few have the means to sit at these tables to voice their concerns and lobby for ANC policies that will be implemented in government to their benefit.  Therefore, as much as the ANC is doing its best to forge a partnership with business, it is also crucial that the party does not leave ordinary people behind.  The same platform that ANC politicians give to the private sector, should also be granted to the people by frequently initiating public dialogues. This is to ensure that their voices are heard, in addition to the government’s programmes of izimbizo (community meetings where government listens to people’s concerns).  ALSO READ: Leading the ANC ‘is difficult’, Ramaphosa tells Mahabane family Instead of only engaging communities during election campaigns, such engagements will keep the ANC leadership in touch with the challenges of ordinary people.  Since I don’t have the R200 000 to book a seat at the dinner table, I, like other voters, will probably only meet Ramaphosa and his ANC officials during their election campaigns in 2024.  This time, there will be no gala dinner but food parcels and T-shirts will be handed out to make people vote for them. I hope they will vote with their heads and not their stomachs.