Since the launch of Shakira and Bizarrap’s Bzrp Music Sessions, Vol. 53, the track has skyrocketed to the top of Spotify’s Top 50 Global chart.  Aside from reaching the top of the charts, Bizarrap and Shakira broke the record for the most-streamed Latin track in a single day in Spotify history, and the track titled BZRP Music Session #53 has also broken the record for most streams by a track in a given day in Spain and Colombia, according to Spotify.  “With over 15 million streams, the track has quickly become the top song in spanish speaking markets such as Argentina, Colombia, Chile and Mexico and has made it to the top 10 in markets like Switzerland, Luxembourg, and Malta,” said Spotify in a statement.  The Colombian star set social media alight lat Thursday with the release of the song, in which she takes aim once again at ex-partner Gerard Piqué, a retired Spanish footballer. The song was listened to 34 million times in just 17 hours on the day of its release and generated an avalanche of comments. The 45-year-old music star takes no prisoners as she launches into a tirade against her former partner, 35, even taking a pop at his 23-year-old girlfriend, Clara Chia. “Lots of gym work, but work your mind as well,” Shakira sings. “You swapped a Ferrari for a (Renault) Twingo, a Rolex for a Casio,” she continues. “I wouldn’t go back to you, even if you cried or begged me… I was out of your league and that’s why you are with someone like you.” Just in case there were any doubts about who the song was aimed at, Shakira includes a couple of word plays using the names Piqué and Clara. ALSO READ: Shakira, Pique reach child custody deal after split Even his mother was not spared as Shakira reportedly put up a mannequin dressed as a witch on her balcony facing her ex-mother-in-law’s house, while her Bizarrap session can be heard blasting on repeat at full volume. Shakira has reportedly put up a witch mannequin on her balcony facing her ex mother-in-law’s house, while her Bizarrap session can be heard blasting on repeat at full volume. pic.twitter.com/fIE30Za9S9— Pop Base (@PopBase) January 14, 2023 A Twitter account pretending to operate on behalf of Casio has clapped back at Shakira, however, the verified official Casio account from Spain has slammed the accounts and cautioned followers against believing everything they see.  The fake account, created in February 2022 goes by the handle @casioteam and had over 300 000 followers at the time of writing. The account’s bio read “we may not be a Rolex, but at least we haven’t been dumped for Clara Chia,” in response to Sharika’s lyric about swapping a Rolex for a Casio.  Si somos. pic.twitter.com/ppbc1ypiDR— C A S I O™ (@CasioTeam) January 15, 2023 In a statement issued via their Instagram stories, the verified Casio Relojes Spain account acknowledged that there had been “multiple accounts appearing on Twitter, Instagram and TikTok pretending to be an official Casio medium”.  “As a result of what happened in recent days on social networks, we remember the importance of verifying sources of information… In the following stories, we share some of the fake accounts that are posting unofficial messages.”  The account further reiterated that there had been no official statement made by Casio regarding Sharika’s lyrics. Piqué is reported to have issued a clap back of his own by poking fun at his ex’s diss with a dig of his own while shouting out Casio watches.  Fellow musician Miley Cyrus seems to be enjoying similar success to Shakira after her recent release titled ‘Flowers’ which many have speculated to have been aimed at her ex Liam Hemsworth.  According to reports, as of Monday, Miley had earned her first Number One on Global Spotify charts with the song that was released on Liam’s birthday.  At the time of writing, the song had reached a new daily high in streams of 10.97 million globally and hit the Number One spot on US Spotify with 2.46 million streams. Miley Cyrus earns her first #1 on Global Spotify with ‘Flowers.’ pic.twitter.com/eZrKk4wRsp— Pop Base (@PopBase) January 16, 2023 *Additional reporting by AFP.