The Lions are supposedly still upbeat and in good spirits despite suffering three big defeats in recent weeks, according to assistant coach Ricardo Loubscher. The Joburg-based side have gone down 37-10 to the Sharks, 40-8 to the Stormers and 33-3 to Munster (last weekend) since just before Christmas last year. That is a total of 110 points conceded and just 21 points, and three tries, scored in their last three outings. The Lions have also tumbled down the United Rugby Championship points table; they’re now in 12th place out of 16 teams, with five wins and six defeats. But they’re not in action in the URC this weekend, but rather the Challenge Cup where they will be up against French side Stade Francais in Paris on Saturday. ALSO READ: SA teams feeling the heat playing in two Euro-based competitions Loubscher said this week the Lions players had been doing plenty of “introspection” after the recent defeats, but insisted they remained confident of a turn-around in fortunes. “It’s been really tough on the road,” said the former Springbok back. “But, the spirits are high. There’s been lots of introspection about how we can turn things around.”Loubscher pointed to a few areas of the Lions performances recently as focus points ahead of the match against Stade Francais, who are second on the Top 14 points table. “Our decision-making can improve. We’re creating enough opportunities but need to be more clinical.“We’re also being stopped behind the gainline, so we need quicker ball, stronger carries and some momentum … then it’s down to decision-making and finishing off, being clinical. “We also need more variation in our attack … we’ve been a bit static, and need to shift the points of contact. “Those are the things that have prevented us from scoring more tries. There simply has to be a willingness and a commitment to turn things around.” The Lions have faced Stade already this season, running out 30-12 winners at home at Ellis Park on 16 December. The visitors though pushed a weakened side into action on that Friday night and are expected to be a much stronger and more challenging team to face this weekend. “Stade are on a high, they’re second in the Top 14 log, have three big wins in row behind them, and they’re a different team at home,” said Loubscher. “They’re more passionate on their home ground and do their best to put on a spectacle for their fans.“They look to entertain, so there will be that French flair to contend with, but they’ll also kick a lot; they don’t like playing in their own half. But, this match is about us and getting our game right and executing well.” The Lions are expected to name their team on Thursday or Friday and there is a good chance Henco van Wyk and Jordan Hendrikse will be fit to feature on Saturday.