With the wraps having come off of the long awaited new Ford Ranger last year, the Blue Oval has now divulged spec and price details of the workhorse focused single cab and SuperCab models. Not mentioned at the same time as the double cab’s stickers last year, the four model Ranger single cab range and the six derivative SuperCab line-up all make use of the 2.0-litre Panther turbodiesel engine as the 3.0-litre Lion V6 remains bespoke to the double cab Wildtrak. In a first though, the latter designation moves down to occupy flagship status on the SuperCab at the expense of the XLT that now serves as the mid-range trim grade above the entry-level XL. On the single cab, the previously untitled base trim falls completely, leaving only the XL. As for the Panther units, the single turbo powers the entire single cab range with outputs of 125kW/405Nm delivered to the rear or four wheels via a speed manual or six-speed automatic transmission. On the three tier SuperCab side, the single turbo prevails on the XL and XLT, but with the option of the 154kW/500Nm bi-turbo mill on the latter and as the sole option on the Wildtrak.  This means the standard inclusion of not only four-wheel-drive, but also the recalibrated General Motors co-developed ten-speed automatic gearbox. Build alongside the double cab and soon the new Volkswagen Amarok at Dearborn’s Silverton Plant outside Pretoria following the record R15.8-billion investment two years ago, the single and SuperCab’s dimensions are identical to those of the double cab, but differ in the loadbox and payload departments. While still able to tow up to 3 500 kg and wade water less than 800 mm, two Euro palettes can now be accommodated in the single cab’s loadbin, with that of the SuperCab measuring 2 305 mm from bulkhead to tailgate. Depending on the model and cab configuration, the payload varies from 964 kg to 1 186 kg with the ground clearance, regardless of the drive wheels, being unchanged from the double cab’s 23 7mm. As with the four-seat model though, a cargo management system has been integrated into the loadbox, with the Wildtrak upping the ante further by boasting a standard binliner and slits moulded into the side of its box itself to allow for a split-type compartment design similar to the Maverick sold in North America. No less than six tie-down hooks as well as external rails complete the cargo box, along with standard plastic protection on its edges and, on the Wildtrak, a standard side-step as well as a 400-watt inverter with 12 and 240-volt outlets located in the inner walls. ALSO READ: WATCH: New Ford Ranger brings nuke to Mzansi’s bakkie war Specification-wise, the XL comes standard with a locking rear differential, a body-coloured front bumper, 16-inch alloy wheels, air-conditioning and the 10.1-inch SYNC4 touchscreen infotainment system with wireless Apple CarPlay and Android Auto. As an option, a total of six XL Upgrade Packs are available that adds, amongst others, dual-zone climate control, 17-inch wheels, cruise control, a reverse camera and what Ford calls a specifically designed off-road pack made-up of all-terrain tyres, a plastic fuel tank guard and steel underbody protection for the front lip, engine and transfer case. Upping the ante, the XLT gets LED headlights and daytime running diodes along with body coloured mirrors, door handles and bumpers, side-steps, a towbar that requires extra on the XL, plus the following: As on the XL, the Ranger XLT can be spruced from six XLT Upgrade Pack comprising 17 or 18-inch alloy wheels, the mentioned off-road package, a wireless smartphone charger, integrated satellite navigation and an appearance package that sees a black finish being applied to the grille, door handles, mirror caps, on the bumpers, fog light surrounds and to the added sports bar. On the safety front, both the XL and XLT have the following as standard: Optional on the latter though as part of the XLT Upgrades Packs are Pre-Collison Assist, Forward Collision Warning, Lane Keep Assist, Autonomous Emergency Braking, Road Departure Warning, Post Impact Braking and Auto High Beam Assist. Completing the range, the Wildtrak swaps the 10.1-inch display for the twelve-inch setup, and gains the wireless smartphone as standard, in addition to the electronic e-shifter, Mud & Ruts and Sand modes, Active Park Assist and the 360-degree surround-view camera. Besides the Wildtrak aesthetic that features on the double cab as well as on the recently revealed New Zealand market Everest Wildtrak, the Ranger SuperCab Wildtrak’s standard specification sheet also includes a step integrated into the rear bumper, 18-inch alloy wheels, dual-zone climate control, partial leather electric seats, ambient lighting and auxiliary overhead switches. Standard safety and driver assistance systems include Adaptive Cruise Control, Road Edge Detection, Blind Spot Monitoring with Trailer Display, Evasive Steer Assist, Lane Centering, Lane Keep Assist, Rear Cross Traffic Alert, Post-Collision Braking, Forward Collision Warning, Autonomous Emergency Braking and a tyre pressure monitor. On-sale from March this with order books now opening, pricing for the new Ranger single cab and SuperCab includes a four-year/120 000 km warranty as well as the option of a service plan that can be extended to eight-years/165 000 km at an additional cost.