Kaizer Chiefs could be slapped with yet another transfer ban, and this time it will be lengthier than the first one.  ALSO READ: Time running out for Malesela at Gallants This is according to reports that have emerged on Monday revealing that a Fifa ruling has stipulated that Chiefs pay or or face a ban.  The ban comes from Chiefs’ failure to honour an agreement with Zimbabwean club Chicken Inn on the former defender Teenage Hadebe’s transfer.  According to a report by Far Post, Chiefs were supposed to pay Chicken Inn a certain amount when they sold Hadebe to a Turkish team.  When Chiefs sold Hadebe to Yeni Malatyaspor the Zimbabwean side were supposed to get R233 600 from the sale based on a clause in their agreement when they bought the player.  It is reported that Chicken Inn were initially under the impression that Hadebe had joined the Turkish side as a free agent.  It was however later revealed that Chiefs had been paid an undisclosed fee for his transfer. Hadebe has since moved to the US Major League.  “The claim of the claimant, Chicken Inn FC, is partially accepted,” Fifa’s tribunal chief legal and compliance officer Emilio García Silvero wrote in the ruling. “The Respondent, Kaizer Chiefs Football club, has to pay to the claimant, the following amount(s): USD 13 654.11 (R234 625.95) as outstanding remuneration plus 5% interest per annum as from 7 July 2021 until the date of effective payment; USD 7 724.64 (R132 736.66) as outstanding remuneration plus 5% interest per annum as from 16 January 2022 until the date of effective payment. “Full payment (including all applicable interest) shall be made to the bank account indicated in the enclosed Bank Account Registration Form.” Should Chiefs fail to make the payment as stipulated, they could be slapped with a three term ban.  “The respondent shall be banned from registering any new players, either nationally or internationally, up until the due amount is paid.  “The maximum duration of the ban shall be of up to three entire and consecutive registration periods. “The present matter shall be submitted, upon request, to the Fifa Disciplinary Committee in the event that full payment (including all applicable interest) is still not made by the end of the three entire and consecutive registration periods.  “The consequences shall only be enforced at the request of the claimant in accordance with article. 24 paragraph. 7 and 8 and article. 25 of the Regulations on the Status and Transfer of Players.  “The final costs of the proceedings in the amount of USD5 000 (R85 905.10) are to be paid by the respondent to Fifa.  “Fifa will reimburse to the claimant (Chicken Inn) the advance of costs paid at the start of the present proceedings. “ Chiefs were slapped with a two window transfer ban after they were found to have erred in not remunerating Fosa Juniors of Madagascar for the transfer of Arohasina Andrianarimanana.  The initial ban had a bad impact on Chiefs and contributed to the lengthy trophy drought at Naturena.