Shauwn ‘MaMkhize’ Mkhize and Bheki Cele’s footage of their New Year’s celebration has resurfaced.  MaMkhize posted a video of herself, her family members including son Andile Mpisane and his wife Tamia on a yacht with the police minister.  The Instagram reel was posted on MaMkhize’s page a day after New Year’s Day, showing how the family had a good time as they entered 2023.  The businesswoman and media personality captioned her video: “As we slowly start to cement ourselves in the New Year, I want to urge everyone to make time for their loved ones. I spent the first day of this year with my family and I wouldn’t have had it any other way. “I live for moments like these, surrounded by those who matter most to me. “Grateful & Highly Favoured.”  It is reported that MaMkhize and Cele are close family friends.  The citing of the two comes after MaMKhize and Cele were named in court documents by Sithelo Shozi on Sunday.  Shozi has two children with her former partner Andile who she accused of being abusive during their relationship.  In court documents seen by the Sunday Times, Shozi alleges that MaMkhize and Andile have not allowed her to visit her daughter Florence ‘baby Flo’ since March 2022, or have communication with her.  Serving summons to the mother-son duo, Shozi is seeking an interim court order declaring that her daughter was “unlawfully and unconstitutionally” abducted and that her child must be returned to her immediately. Shozi also wants an interdict blocking Andile and his mother from removing her children from her home. The DJ and influencer names Cele in the court documents as the third respondent, however, does not make allegations against him, the publication reported.  READ NOW: Battle of the interviews: Black Coffee wants the podcast while Enhle prefers CNN She claims her child was moved from Durban to Johannesburg without her consent or knowledge. Shozi says in the court documents she was in talks with Andile for a parenting agreement, however, she can no longer bring herself  “to negotiate a settlement concerning my child and her abductors”.  Responding, MaMkhize’s lawyer denied abducting the child and will be opposing the application. Ntsako Godi said Shozi’s affidavit is “attention-seeking” particularly because she named Cele in the documents with no allegations against him.   The lawyer also questioned why Shozi did not lay a charge of kidnapping at a police station because of the serious nature of the alleged crime.  “The child was never abducted and has at all times since birth been raised in the house of MaMkhize and Andile,” he told the publication.