Tributes continue to pour in for the fallen football legend Peter Mancer who was a founding administrator at Premier Soccer League (PSL), since its inception in the 1996-97 seasons, and was credited with many of the league’s marketing initiatives over the years. Mancer passed away on Monday, after a long battle with severe lung illness for a number of years, said PSL in a statement.  Minnie Dlamini, a South African on-air personality, actress and model shared her greatest moments about the giant and how he changed her life for good. “I’ll never forget the day I met one of the people that changed my life. It was 2013, and I had just started at SABC Sport to work with Thomas Mlambo on the most watched sport review and preview show in South Africa,” said Dlamini ALSO READ: “A few weeks in, I was told I would co-host the #PSLAWARDS with 3 sport anchor GIANTS! I was 23 and my nerves were shot!  “The first rehearsal all presenters were familiar so that wasn’t too bad, then Peter Mancer arrived. I sheepishly followed behind trying to hide behind the group. He peeled through all the bodies and bellowed ‘is that my Minnie-Bins?’ “I politely said, ‘Hi Peter lovely to meet you’ and he chuckled – ‘I can’t wait to do great things together, you are a star and stars need to shine’,” added Dlamini “He believed in me and my path when many people didn’t, and we broke many barriers together in sport. “Thank you for always guiding me through this journey, your wisdom and support will be deeply missed. Thank you for the laughs and more than anything thank you for making everything you touched GOLD because we all grew. “We have lost a great mind, a great soul and a visionary, whose spirit will live on through all the lives he’s touched. Rest now and thank you for everything,” said Dlamini The PSL is mourning the sad passing of Mr Peter ‘Squire’ Mancer.Mr Mancer spent many years as a PSL Marketing and Broadcasting specialist advisor.https://t.co/mDgs05G5Kh pic.twitter.com/9OUUFA95mR— Official PSL (@OfficialPSL) January 2, 2023 Peter "Squire" Mancer was much more than a colleague. He was one of the most genuine, trustworthy, dependable friends I have ever known.  Whether it was when my family got held up at home, or when I had trouble at work, he really, truly, honestly cared from his heart #RIPSquire— Derek Blanckensee (@derek049) January 2, 2023