Every once in a while, someone pops up, redefines and reaffirms everything you’ve known and everything you’ve been afraid to pursue for whatever reasons. It is even more amplified for young women trying to make something of themselves and hearing a lot of negativity and rejection wherever they turn to. Many of us are raised in societies that push for education first and artistry is never on the list and if it ever makes the cut, it always ends up a hobby-like event. Hearing statements like: “What do you expect to get out of this?” or “This isn’t a path a girl like you should pursue” or “This isn’t a sustainable career path” can do a number on one’s confidence, resilience and resolve to reach for the vision they have for their lives. These are some of the challenges that Tanzanian female cinematic automotive visual content creator, Rania Gordhan has had to push through to get to where she is today. Admittedly, that was quite a mouthful of pronouncing but after getting to understand what goes on in her brilliant artistic mind, Life&Style was equally intrigued for a taste. For a young woman in a primarily predominantly male dominated industry, Rania has had to work overtime just to prove her worth, something that she feels strongly stacks the deck against women who, at times, are way more qualified than their male counterparts. Rania has been in the photography industry for over ten years and started off as a teen interested in a camera her dad once brought home. “I was a very hard-headed and curious person growing up and even in school, I’d rather opt to be outside doing something practical and I’d always take the camera with me,” she shares. It was that same rebellion and curiosity that started to shape a meaningful and bigger picture for her that encouraged her to set standards and make something unique that she would eventually use to represent the country. That same rebellion and determination then birthed Rania Gordhan Productions. This was all roses and glitter until she saw how difficult the people around her would make it that in the long run, even forced her to shut down her office. At around 14-years-old, Rania started carrying her dad’s camera to school and every other chance she got, just to see what it and she could do. “It was tough to convince anyone because everyone was concerned about my school but eventually they saw that it could bear fruits,” said Rania. “Most people just use a camera to capture images but I was so sure that there was more to it than that and eventually, my school saw my vision and allowed me to have this hobby.” “After graduating high school, I took a French diploma and worked in a few 9-5 jobs, which I felt held me back a lot,” she shared. Her last 9-5, at Toyota, was the beginning of her turning point. After doing freelance work and saving up for a long time, she finally took a leap of faith and opened her photography office. Rania in a shoot in Dar es Salaam. PHOTOS|COURTESY A learning process While in the learning phase, Rania did a variety of genres of photography, from events, weddings and even corporate, and always outsourced individuals to work with but cinematic automotive visuals ultimately won her heart. “A lot of photographers deal with basic photography such as travel, wildlife, events and so forth and I thought why not do something unique that can represent the country and also inspire other youngsters to do something they are uniquely good at?” “Why does everyone want to stuff the common sectors of photography when there is so much more to do out there? What exactly is the fear?” she asks. While cinematic automotive visuals is an adrenaline-driven type of photography, it is also relatively safe. There are regulations to follow and safety measures to consider. “It’s not just about grabbing the rope and doing it; there are regulations to follow and safety precautions to take into consideration,” she says. “It took a lot to convince the municipality officials and regulators that this is my profession and I take safety seriously.” “Safety precautions include installing red flags on the car to warn other drivers, clearing the shoot venue of any bystanders who might get in the way and if we are shooting on open and busy roads, we do have an official who will help keep traffic out of the way safely,” Rania explained. However, because shooting a moving car involves Rania herself being in a moving vehicle too, she also includes a specially made safety harness and vest with which she straps herself from the boot of the car and is fastened securely inside via the driver’s seat. To keep the boot door open, special restraints have been welded into the boot’s door and a metal rod is attached which keeps it open and in place as the vehicle moves during a shoot. The modification of the car has also been done to create faucets for multiple cameras to shoot every possible angle as well as make room for safety buckles. From an onlooker, this may all seem scary and unsafe stunt, while for the adrenaline junkie, it may look like fun but it is an art that Rania has perfected over years of hard work, rejection and dedication. “It takes a lot of heavy equipment, one or two days and lots of creativity because people aren’t just paying for the shoot but the artistry that comes out of the mind,” says Rania. Challenges “When I opened up my business, I faced a lot of backlash and it was not a joke. I heard a lot of people tell me I was too young to do this and that it was way too risky and even more questioning who would rescue me if it all goes to waste and I am in trouble. I was confident in my decision and told them that I would much rather save myself, especially knowing that I had done this work for 10 years solo,” she said of some of the challenges the encountered in her journey. There were plenty of bystanders with a lot of unwarranted questions and unsolicited advice, all telling Rania why a girl couldn’t make it in this line of work she chose to pursue. Many people in her life wrapped their negativity behind her not having had the experience of working with a team or having run a business but one thing Rania has proven and continues to do so is that vision, more often than not, requires a lot of rebellious conviction. “I’ve never had a team of my own; I’ve always outsourced people and so I have never actually experienced what it is like to have a trustworthy person to create a team with, especially here in Tanzania” she said. The vehicle is fitted with faucets that other cameras are attached to during shoots for a variety of angles. PHOTO | COURTESY Triumphs and hopes Some clients who’ve taken a chance on Rania include Toyota, Mercedes Benz, Ford in Tanzania. “I then decided to take my art outside the country and found a lot of men who do this. I’ve worked with clients in South Africa, Dubai, Oman and in Tanzania, Zanzibar and Dar es Salaam,” she said. “When I see a car, I don’t just see it as just a car. I ask myself what can I capture out of this and what angle will make someone stop and think yes, this is a fine car. I wanted to change the perspective of cars, especially luxury cars and create something local that sets Tanzania aside,” she said further. The success that Rania has built for herself have helped her create a portfolio that spans across Africa and some United Arabs nations. With this experience she hopes that locally, we can: • Value local work – Rania believes that it is important to value local work and support it. Her experience in the automotive industry, especially as a woman, has seen her deal with a lot of undermining, not just from her peers in the industry but even those that could have been potential clients. She is of the mind that once we begin to value what is proudly ours, we are in a better position to gain from it. “Photographers and videographers have the power to change a business. We can take a café and turn it into the café because of the visuals we create,” she said. • Tap into the opportunity – Creativity of this magnitude requires a lot of dedication and a big leap of faith but according to Rania, it is a faction of photography that Tanzanian youth can venture into because of the niche market that comes with it. “Fear has no place. The youth need to learn to put aside the fear of venturing into the unknown and understand that it is not an easy job. It’s more than just taking pictures and videos but it is worth it. Women, especially, need to step forward a lot more boldly and stand their ground in what they are good at,” Rania says of her hopes for women and the youth who want to venture in automotive visuals.