Mobile technology giant, Vodacom, has announced that the 2Africa subsea cable, the largest subsea cable system in the world, has landed at the network’s facility in Gqeberha. This is the first submarine cable landing in the Eastern Cape region, promising greater internet capacity and acceleration of connectivity across the province and supporting South Africa’s growing digital economy. The 2Africa consortium includes eight international partners including China Mobile International, Meta (Facebook), MTN GlobalConnect, Orange, center3 (stc), Telecom Egypt, Vodafone/Vodacom and WIOCC, who have partnered to build 2Africa.  Launched in May 2022, the subsea cable project aims to significantly increase the capacity, quality, and availability of internet connectivity between Africa and the rest of the world. Diego Gutierrez, Vodacom Group Chief Officer: International Markets said the latest 2Africa cable landing affirms its commitment to driving digital inclusion in Africa by increasing access to quality internet services and investing in the network infrastructure to support this goal. “We cannot achieve this alone, and collaboration between other industry stakeholders and the public sector is critical in enabling more citizens across the continent to be connected.” Vodacom said the 2Africa project underpins further growth of 4G, 5G and fixed broadband access by providing improved connectivity.  “The cable system, measuring 45 000 kilometres in length with a design capacity of 180 Tbps, will interconnect Europe (eastward via Egypt), the Middle East (via Saudi Arabia) and Africa. Essentially, 2Africa will connect 19 countries in Africa and 33 countries in total.” “Delivering more than the total combined capacity of all subsea cables serving Africa today, 2Africa will provide much-needed internet capacity and reliability across much of the Middle East, India, Pakistan and Africa, supporting the growth of 4G, 5G, and fixed broadband access for hundreds of millions of people.” Vodacom said the 2Africa East cable system, of which the Gqeberha branch is part of, will go live by and be ready for service by the fourth quarter of 2023. ALSO READ: Google commits to keeping ads platform safe