Dar es Salaam. Mwananchi Communication Limited (MCL) is set to organise a nationwide dialogue on the execution of the National Climate Action Plan (NCAP) and resolutions set by 2022 United Nations Climate Change Conference (COP27) in Sharm El-Sheikh, Egypt in November last year. Dubbed ‘What Next for Tanzania after Egypt, COP27’ the forum will be graced by the minister of State in the Vice President’s Office (Union Affairs and Environment), Mr Selemani Jafo. The 27th session of the Climate Conference, which was held for the first time in Africa from November 6 to November 20, 2022, was part of the United Nations Climate Change Conference (UNCCC). Introducing the forum at MCL headquarters at Tabata in Dar es Salaam, the MCL’s marketing and corporate affairs manager, Ms Vivian Temi, said the event is scheduled to take place in Dar es Salaam on January 31, 2023. “The venue will be confirmed later on, but we expect the event will bring together key figures from different sectors including government leaders, public and private institutions, innovators and policymakers,” she said. “Discussions will be centred on action for climate empowerment and scaling up mitigation and adaptation ambitions for Tanzania,” she added. It will also focus on how to tap into the climate finance mechanisms, mainstreaming vulnerable groups like women, youth, and persons with disability (PwDs) as well as children and other vulnerable people in the climate change agenda. Discussions will also focus on national priorities, policies and collaboration, energy transition and food security systems, among others. Ms Temi said some of the themes for discussions include the lessons and opportunities from the COP27; Understanding key features of the national climate change action plan, unlocking climate financing, renewable energy and climate change, food security, women, youth, and the vulnerable. MCL offers sponsorship packages for partners who would like to be an integral part of the event’s success. Platinum members would be asked to pay Sh30 million for sponsorship, Sh20 million for silver and Sh15 million for gold. Some of the key achievements of the COP27 include financial assistance to developing countries for the loss and damage, rescuing and rebuilding physical and social infrastructures devastated by extreme weather. The conference also marked the first discussion of the development of a new post-2025 climate finance target by policy-makers. COP27 was also participated by countries agreeing to discuss the alignment of public and private financial flows with the Paris Agreement targets for mitigation and adaptation. Being part of the agreement, countries reaffirmed their commitment to reducing greenhouse gases.