A thirty-one-year-old constable has become the first woman to complete the South African Police Service (Saps) Special Task Force (STF) selection training programme in the history of the organisation.  “The member with 11 years’ service is regarded as the only female police officer to have successfully completed the STF training programme without any amendments to the training to suit women,” said police spokesperson Brigadier Athlenda Mathe.  “She is also the only female police officer serving in the unit as an operational member.”  Yesterday, she formed part of a platoon with 10 male police officers who were bestowed with their STF parachute wings by national police commissioner General Fannie Masemola.  STF parachute wings are awarded to members who have completed the STF selection training programme.  “The STF parachute wings are worn on the left chest and signifies that the recipient has been trained to a high level of skill in weapon proficiency, advanced paramilitary rural tactics, advanced tactical policing for high-risk incidents, hostage release tactics in a variety of high-risk incidents, as well as the ability to deploy operationally by parachute into rural environments,” said Mathe.  Also on parade were an additional 10 STF members who were bestowed with their operators badge after undergoing a two-year probation period, during which they were already serving as members of the elite unit.  The female police officer from the Western Cape – whose identity may not be revealed for security reasons – said the momentous achievement must be a motivation for other women who continue to break barriers in male dominated environments.  “If you really want something you must do everything to obtain it. I wanted to be part of the best, either the best or nothing,” the constable said.  “If I can do it, other women can and will be able to do it.” The STF is the only paramilitary unit in the Saps and falls under the Specialised Operations Component, led by Major-General Nonhlanhla Zulu.  Together with other units and components, they report to the organisation’s first female deputy national commissioner, Lieutenant-General Tebello Mosikili.  NOW READ: First woman elected to lead National House of Traditional Leaders Masemola said the organisation will continue to empower and recognise women.  “Out of 906 applications to join this elite unit, 589 applicants qualified for provisional selection.  Ultimately, only 93 applicants reported for selection, of which only 11 successfully completed the STF basic training programme,” Masemola said.  “Suffice to say, the 11 successful candidates, together with currently serving 10 STF members, have done the organisation proud. All members on parade have shown dedication and commitment to their profession.  The STF selection criteria is stringent and those who are selected must prove their mettle throughout their intensive and rigorous training.”  The STF unit was established in 1976. Its mandate includes responding and providing operational support only to high-risk incidents, which include terrorism and hostage-related incidents, and rescue missions, among a host of other high-risk matters.  ALSO READ: KZN’s first woman maxillofacial surgeon – news@citizen.co.za