With the 2022 National Senior Certificate (NSC) examination results set to be released next week, matriculants may wonder how their final marks are being calculated. Having an idea of how your matric results are calculated may seem as if it is not a big deal, but is of great importance in case a pupil may think their final marks were incorrectly determined. Firstly, one must understand that their results are separated between a 25% and 75% assessment criteria to make up the 100%. School-based assessments (SBA), which include tests, projects and assignment, accounts for the 25%, while the final examination contributes 75% towards your results. ALSO READ: 30% pass mark undermines the intellect of SA’s youth – Maimane You get your final marks out of 100% when these two are combine, therefore, this is how your results are calculated. There’s a common misconception that a pupil only needs 30% to pass matric, but that is not the case. To achieve a NSC pass, one must meet the minimum subject requirements.  The pupil must obtain at least the following: There are three other different pass levels which include a Bachelor’s Degree, Diploma and Higher certificate pass. This pass means you can study towards a Bachelor’s Degree at university since it is the highest pass one can achieve. Most bursary opportunities require that you have a Bachelor’s Degree pass in order to gain access. The requirement to meet a Bachelor’s Degree pass include the following: With a Diploma pass, a candidate has admission to study towards a national Diploma course at a higher learning institution. To achieve a Diploma pass, you must obtain at least the following: A Higher Certificate pass allows you to further your studies at TVET colleges and certain private colleges in a field of your choice. A candidate must pass at least 6 out of 7 subjects and obtain at least the following: Here are the pass requirements for the National Senior Certificate: pic.twitter.com/Q4GqEq9M5Z— Dep. Basic Education (@DBE_SA) January 7, 2022 If you were wondering what a distinction pass in matric (a pass of 80% or more) and how to achieve it, a candidate must understand the different types of achievement. Take a look below. This grading system contributes towards your Admission Point Scores (APS). Your APS is calculated by looking at the percentage you have achieved per subject and then adding those to get a total. This total will be your APS and determines whether or not you qualify for admission into university or college. Here is how the point system works: Meanwhile, the Department of Basic Education has already confirmed that the results for the Class of 2022 were currently being processed and will be released on Friday, 20 January. All is on track to release the matric exam results in eight days. #MatricResults2022@Angie_Motshekga @dbetvnews @ElijahMhlanga @HubertMweli @ReginahMhaule pic.twitter.com/cbYF9RVH0K— Dep. Basic Education (@DBE_SA) January 11, 2023 NOW READ: Matric exams: Will results be published in newspapers?