 Same. The Catholic Church in Same District, Kilimanjaro Region, has launched a secondary school dedicated to agricultural training. The move is among the efforts being made to boost agricultural production for economic growth in the country. “It will enable students to start learning farming practices from Form One,” said Bishop Rogath Kimaryo. He was speaking during a special mass to grace the launching of the learning institution at St Jacobus Church in Same town. The academy has been opened in line with the Ministry of Education’s policy to promote schools which specialise in different disciplines including agriculture. There are also other secondary schools across the country which specialise in technical education, science and commercial subjects among others. The church leader called on the government to scrap some fees and taxes imposed on equipment and tools for the learning institutions. Bishop Kimaryo said schools run by faith-based organizations, in particular, primarily offer the service to the community rather than make profits. “We are not here to make money. Rather we are serving the society and, in our case, children from impoverished families. “Fees and other forms of taxation have often hampered the running of training institutions under the church. “It is not true that institutions run by faith-based institutions are there for business interests,” he said. The school manager, Reverend Deogratius Mchagi, said the learning institution’s tractors and vehicles will be procured to assist the students in agriculture and technical training. On his part, Same District Commissioner Edward Mpogolo commended the church for establishing a school specialising in teaching agriculture. “This will be a starting point for students who will excel to join the Sokoine University of Agriculture (SUA),” he said. The school will have a workshop for technical training in maintenance of tractors which will be used to train the students. Mr Mpogolo said the use of machines in the training should be hailed as the era of using hand hoes for farming has passed. The launching of the facility included the opening of new class rooms, a dining hall, administrative building and a workshop for tractor and vehicle repairs and maintenance.