Newly re-elected African National Congress (ANC) President Cyril Ramaphosa on Wednesday described leading the party as “no child’s play” during his visit to the family of the late party stalwart Reverend Zac Richard Mahabane in Kroonstad, Free State. The governing party has organised activities in the province leading to its 111th birthday celebrations, known as January 8 Statement, in Bloemfontein on Sunday. The first leg of the activities saw the president, accompanied by secretary-general Fikile Mbalula and his deputy Maropene Ramokgopa, on Wednesday visiting the Mahabane homestead. The visit ended at the Seisoville cemetery in the Maokeng township, where they laid wreaths at Mahabane’s grave. In a live Facebook broadcast during a meeting with the Mahabene family, Ramaphosa paid tribute to the late Free State leader, telling the family that being an ANC leader was “not an easy task”. “We often say we thank families of our leaders for allowing them the time and sacrifice to lead because leading the ANC is not easy, it’s not child’s play. “It was much more difficult during their time. This time around, believe me, it is still not easy, it’s very difficult.” ALSO READ: Zuma vs Ramaphosa: ANC ‘will humbly engage’ former president, says Mbalula He jokingly added that anyone who wanted to replace him as ANC leader was welcome to do so. ANC National Officials led by President @CyrilRamaphosa attending wreathlaying ceremony at the Gravesite of Cde President Zacharius Richard Mahabane in Kroonstad, Free State #ANC111 ????????????#January8 pic.twitter.com/jt4e9eZRHE— ATHI GELEBA ???????? (@AthiGeleba) January 4, 2023 Ramaphosa thanked the family for holding on to the heritage of Mahabane and the ANC. “They made huge sacrifices, and we may not live up to the full recognition of the sacrifices they made. We are pleased and proud that we are the only organisation on the continent with this rich heritage, a heritage that is also recognised by our people.” A priest by profession, Mahabane was born on 15 August 1881, in Thaba Nchu, Free State.   He first trained as a teacher and later went to the Cape to train for the priesthood, according to the Presidency website. He joined the ANC in 1916, four years after its formation in Bloemfontein. He was elected ANC leader for the then Cape province in 1919, and later elected as a national leader. Mahabane played an important role in the history of the party. He is known as the only ANC president who has ever served the organisation during two separate terms – first from 1924 to 1927 and again from 1937 to 1940. He lived and worked in Kroonstad until his death in September 1971, aged 90. NOW READ: R350k to play golf with Ramaphosa: ‘We don’t have money, we raise money’ – Mbalula