The idea behind the Bagamoyo Port has always been a stumbling block for me. While I understand the logic behind it, something about it has never quite sat well with me. As a result, I have never spoken for or against it, until now. To begin with, it is crucial to recognise the significance of ports as national assets. Port performance and competitiveness can significantly affect trade, investment, and economic growth. So it was quite rational for President Magufuli to make the Dar es Salaam port central to his agenda. Quite early on in his presidency, he made a number of surprise visits to the port where heads rolled. Tanzanians loved it. That was when I met Julius Nguhulla, an expert in maritime economics and transportation and the author of the book “Enhancing Your Knowledge in Shipping.” Julius was so enthusiastic about his business, and all I had to do was get him started and I got a baptism into everything water transportation and related economics. It was a couple of years into Magufuli’s presidency, and by then it was becoming clearer that his policies were having a detrimental effect on the economy. People were blaming his anti-business practices for their troubles. A poll by Twaweza established that Magufuli’s popularity had plummeted from a high of 96 percent to 55 percent in his second year. That is where Julius entered the scene. The issue that brought him out of obscurity had to do with the falling volumes of cargo at the port of Dar. The government had introduced multiple new charges at the port, and people blamed them for the situation. But Julius came out in defence of the government, arguing that global dynamics were to blame for the situation. He highlighted that the shipping industry was experiencing a slump in cargo volumes globally. Julius’ style was made for the media – and the media loved him. But, playing an apologist for Magufuli’s regime then was costly. I saw that first-hand in one forum where Julius was invited to speak. He didn’t last long. The treatment was unwarranted – I thought that he deserved to be heard. And that is what led to our first meeting. Julius and I concluded that the government’s policy response to the global dynamics was quite the opposite of what was needed then. The decision to make TASAC both regulate and participate in business was a mistake. Similarly, the introduction of VAT on transit goods was remarkably ill-timed. Later, the government recognised those errors and reversed those policies. During our conversation, Julius shared with me the reasoning behind the proposed construction of Bagamoyo. He explained that the trend in the shipping industry is to build bigger and bigger ships to take advantage of economies of scale. Unfortunately, the existing Dar port, chosen for convenience rather than efficiency, cannot accommodate these developments. Essentially, Dar can take Tanzania only so far. Until then, I viewed the Bagamoyo idea as misguided, given that there are many ways to make Dar more competitive. In fact, three years earlier one analyst reasoned that making Dar as efficient as Mombasa would add $2 billion to the economy each year. It is better to upgrade the existing infrastructure before dishing out $10 billion for a new port, right? However, Julius argued that there are geopolitical risks involved with that approach, particularly with Kenya’s Lamu Port and LAPSSET program moving forward. Read: Foreign firms eye Tanzania's Sh23 trillion Bagamoyo Port However, Bagamoyo aside, you still need to improve Dar’s efficiency. The problem is that the two ports are only 80 kilometres apart, so how can one justify simultaneous investments in both ports? One potential solution could be to locate the Bagamoyo Port further north. Tanga is considered by some to be superior to Bagamoyo as a natural harbour, and the region could benefit greatly from an economic stimulus. But that is not going to happen, is it? Thus, with the status quo in Bagamoyo being maintained, the question that lingers is what will happen to the Dar port? Julius suggests that both ports can coexist, with Bagamoyo acting as a hub port like Singapore, Hamburg, or Amsterdam, and Dar serving the local market. However, I am not persuaded. I think Bagamoyo would likely spell the death of Dar, as there simply wouldn’t be enough cargo to sustain Dar. As a result, I have remained in limbo, unwilling to fully support or oppose the Bagamoyo project. But after a deep dive into the opportunities and challenges of the Dar waterfront in the past two weeks, I have reached an epiphany. Strangely, the facts have been staring me in the face for years. The truth is that the current location of Dar’s port is no longer ideal for the city’s growth potential. By occupying prime real estate at the heart of the city, the port limits the possibility for other developments, including waterfront development. However, the benefits that Bagamoyo brings to the table far outweigh any potential drawbacks. Bagamoyo can overcome the constraints imposed by Dar, setting the stage for Tanzania to become a more efficient, competitive, and sustainable regional logistics hub. In conclusion, the proposed construction of Bagamoyo raises important questions about the future of Dar and the economic growth of Tanzania as a whole. While there are valid concerns about the potential negative impact on Dar, it is important to remember that the shipping industry is constantly evolving and Tanzania must adapt to remain competitive. I think the opportunities presented by Bagamoyo outweigh the potential downsides. Therefore, a careful transition from Dar to Bagamoyo is now needed to secure a brighter future for Tanzania.