According to Mzansi Magic, Bheki ‘Ihhashi Elimhlophe’ and Linah Ngcobo have been ‘Couple Goals’ before the hashtag even existed and most South Africans who are familiar with the couple would be inclined to agree.  As one of the foremost Maskandi artists and an iconic 1980s pop star-turned-pastor wife respectively, ‘Ihhashi Elimhlophe’ and MaNgcobo, are South African entertainment titans whose children have also crafted careers in showbiz. Now the Ngcobo family is giving us a front-row seat into their lives with a new reality show titled Ofuze.  The show will be premiering on Mzansi Magic on Thursday 19 January 2023.  Mzansi Magic promises that the series will show the family like you’ve never seen them, as the younger generation attempt to break free of the rules and restrictions set out to them by their parents. “Over the years, we’ve seen the Ngcobo clan grace our screens as the perfect Mzansi family, but now that the kids are older it’s clear all that glitters is not gold,” explained the channel.  “It’s great to have a new family join the Mzansi Magic kin in the new year. We have enjoyed success with reality shows that feature other prominent local families, from Uthando Nes’thembu to The Ranakas. We are excited to bring our Mzansi Magic viewers closer to Ngcobo family through this story. We are confident that some of the storylines explored will resonate with many who will be watching,” commented Shirley Adonisi, Director of Local Entertainment Channels at M-Net. On the multigenerational Ofuze, viewers will see that while Mr and Mrs Ngcobo have carved out the perfect path for themselves, it hasn’t been a bed of roses for their four children, especially since their loving parents rule with an iron fist.  “‘Nepo babies’ might be the hot topic in Hollywood, but to say it’s been an easy path for our younger Ngcobo generation couldn’t be further from the truth,” added Mzansi Magic.  On Ofuze, viewers can expect to see Nathi Ngcobo, the opinionated first-born son who is a father of four.  Keen to carve out his own path outside of the family business, viewers will get to follow as he tries to run his family his own way. YOU MIGHT ALSO LIKE: ‘The Wife’: Mo Setumo explains why Tshedi does the things she does He will star alongside the first-born daughter; actress and TV host Ntombee Mzolo, whose role in the family is that of a mediator.  A mother and wife, she has been battling her own demons since the loss of two of her children. Will she be able to catch the inner light she’s been chasing? Third-born Jabu is a father who has his own commitment issues – much to the horror of his traditional parents.  He wants to move out of home but refuses to get married, which is the condition placed on all Ngcobo children if they want to have their own space. And then we have the last born, Vusiwe, whose megawatt smile hides a secret she’s been keeping from almost everyone in the family. In a long-term relationship with her partner, will he finally pop the question and therefore free her from the warm clutches of her parents – and will her double life catch up with her? “Ofuze is about a tight-knit family navigating their own unique challenges of life under the spotlight. Will the Ngcobo parents loosen their grip on their kin, or is freedom a dream the younger generation will continue to fight for? Can their love overcome all challenges, or will personal dreams threaten the family legacy?” Tune in to Ofuze when it premieres on Mzansi Magic (DStv Channel 161) on Thursday 19 January 2023 at 8 pm.  READ NEXT: Ezomshado: MaCele and MaKhumalo to kick off the new year with a new show