Two foreign nationals have been arrested for dealing in illegal cigarettes on the East Rand. The Ekurhuleni Metro Police Department (EMPD) Northern Region Task Team and Warrants Unit officers intercepted and seized the illicit cigarettes at a store in Eastleigh, Edenvale, on Monday. EMPD spokesperson Kelebogile Thepa said officers discovered numerous boxes containing illicit cigarettes. “Alcohol was also sold on the premises without a valid liquor license, which was confiscated. The two male suspects, between the ages of 28 and 45, tried to bribe the officers with an amount of R2 000 and were immediately arrested.” “The duo face charges of bribery, dealing in illicit cigarettes with an estimated street value of R147 000 and selling alcohol without a valid liquor license,” Thepa said.   Thepa said the two foreign nationals were detained at the Edenvale Police station and will appear in court soon. “It is vital that police work hand in hand with communities to prevent such criminal elements. The EMPD commends the officers for a job well done,” she said. ALSO READ: Two suspects shot dead during attempted mosque robbery Meanwhile, three suspects were arrested after they were found to be in an illegal possession of firearms, ammunition and drugs on Tuesday. The trio were handcuffed during an operation by the Economic Infrastructure and Tracking Task Team (EITT). Police spokesperson Colonel Robert Netshiunda said the team was acting on an intelligence led investigation when they cornered the suspects at a house in Montclair, KwaZulu-Natal. “A 32-year-old suspect was found in possession of 34 rounds of ammunition and a substance suspected to be rock cocaine.” “The second suspect, a 34-year-old, was found to be in illegal possession of a firearm whose serial number was filed off, as well as ammunition, whilst a 28-year-old suspect was also nabbed for being in illegal possession of firearm and ammunition,” Netshiunda said. Netshiunda said the police investigation also led to the recovery of rock cocaine which was left abandoned at a nearby premises. “The estimated street value of the recovered cocaine is approximately R200 000,” he added.     ALSO READ: City Power sees an increase in cable theft incidents during load shedding