Proteas all-rounder Marco Jansen has been named the ICC Men’s Emerging Cricketer of the Year for 2022. The 22-year-old was on Wednesday named the top upcoming player in the international game ahead of New Zealand’s Finn Allen, Arshdeep Singh of India and Afghanistan youngster Ibrahim Zadran. It has been an incredible rise for Jansen, who just over a year ago was yet to play for South Africa. As the 2023 calendar kicked in, the 2.09-metre-tall left-armer had become an integral part of the national set-up of the Proteas where he has featured in 12 matches across all three formats. Klerksdorp-born Jansen has been particularly influential in the Test arena where he played eight matches and captured an outstanding 36 wickets, second only to South Africa’s spearhead, Kagiso Rabada (47). ALSO READ: Jansen, Petersen the big finds of a riveting Test series “I am lost for words right now after what I think has been a dream year for me,” a delighted Jansen said. “Never in my wildest dreams would I have imagined taking 36 wickets and playing eight Test matches for the Proteas in my first year of international cricket. “So to have achieved this feat, with the cherry on top of being named as the ICC Emerging Men’s Cricketer of the Year, is unbelievable. I am so grateful to everyone who made it possible for me to reach this point so early in my career.” Marco Jansen had an unforgettable 2022 and was a deserved winner of the ICC Men's Emerging Cricketer of the Year award ????More ➡️ https://t.co/YmCEMh89XD pic.twitter.com/iwEkdfxap7— ICC (@ICC) January 26, 2023 Jansen’s wickets in Test match cricket came at an impressive average of 19.02 with the lanky paceman bagging two four wicket hauls and a one five-for (5/35), which came at the Oval in London during the Proteas’ tour to the country during August and September. He also recorded a maiden half-century (59) when South Africa faced Australia in Melbourne during their year-end tour. Overall with the bat, he accumulated 234 runs in his 13 innings over the past year. ALSO READ: Rabada raves about Jansen coming up the bowling aisle “Those are the two performances that really stand out for me,” Jansen said. “Taking my first Test fifer against England at the Oval, and hitting my first Test half-century against Australia in the Boxing Day Test at the MCG. “To reach those milestones at two of the most historic venues for Test cricket, those are memories I will truly cherish forever.” In the other two formats, Jansen played three one-day internationals and a solitary T20I as he continues to establish himself in the limited-overs set-up.