Arthur Zwane admits that he is under pressure as Kaizer Chiefs coach but he is not panicking yet because he feels the team is on the right track.  ALSO READ: Chiefs run Sundowns close but Masandawana march mercilessly on This is despite the Soweto giants suffering their third DStv Premiership loss in a row – they have conceded six goals without reply in the process.  Chiefs lost 1-0 to runaway log leaders Mamelodi Sundowns at FNB Stadium on Saturday evening in a game Zwane felt they could have easily won.  “There is always pressure at Kaizer Chiefs – whether you are winning or losing games. But it is part of the game. I am still going to panic,” said Zwane after the match.  “I will keep working hard. God will answer our prayers as well. I believe we could have taken maximum points today.”  Zwane believes it was their slow start in the first half that cost them. Sundowns scored in the 20th minute through Neo Maema and Chiefs could not find their way back into the game.  “We were sluggish at the start… We played in patches but in terms of pressing at some point that gave us a few opportunities that we could not capitalise on.  “With the few balls that we got into their box, I think we could have maye been more aggressive in attacking the ball.  “And it might have been a different result going into the half-time break. We gave them too much respect and time on the ball.  “The challenge that we had in the first half, even when we regained possession, we would give it back. It was a half to forget,” added Zwane. At half time, Zwane took off Samkelo Zwane and brought the more experienced Siyethemba Sithebe in his place and the team stabilised a little. “They dictated terms and we made the first change, with Sithebe coming on for Zwane.  “We looked much better in the second half and we pressed them and created a number of chances and it could have easily been 4-1.  “But it was one of those games where we could not utilise the chances we created. If we can take the performance of the second half forward, we stand a good chance of getting rhythm.  “We can try to bring our pride back. I am obviously disappointed that we lost the game.”  Zwane will have the week to work on his defence and finishing up front ,which he has identified as lacking in his team.  His next game is a home fixture against Royal AM on Sunday. Chiefs have taken the game to Peter Mokaba Stadium in Polokwane.