While not everyone talks about it, the majority of people will experience some sexual issue within their lifetime. This is according to the Between Us Clinic which did a recent survey about the best sex positions for working through six common sexual problems. Writer, certified sex educator, and sex/love coach Suzannah Weiss said that most couples, at some point or another, will run into some kind of obstacle in their sex lives.  “Maybe they will feel less desire for each other over time, or maybe one or both partners will experience issues with arousal, orgasm, or pain during sex.” Weiss assured that these issues are common and added that they are nothing to be ashamed of.  “While it’s important to bring them up with a doctor or therapist, sometimes easy fixes like changes in position can go a long way.” For the study, the Between Us Clinic surveyed 43 sex experts to find out what positions are best for those struggling with issues like premature ejaculation, erectile dysfunction, intimacy problems, orgasm issues, pain during sex and more. Overall, the top positions – as determined by the study – were spooning, missionary, doggy, cowgirl, reverse cowgirl, butterfly, missionary with a wedge/pillow the coital alignment technique, lotus and passive doggy.   READ: Sex toys and self-pleasure are an integral part of self-care The basic takeaway from the study seems to be; “where there’s a will, there’s a way”. That is to say, where there is a common issue, there may be a sex position that might be able to help.  Take penetration depth for example, if you find yourself wanting to achieve more depth, the experts surveyed by the clinic recommend trying  the “butterfly”, even going so far as to call it “the ultimate position for increasing penetration depth.” “The closer together your legs and hips are, the deeper penetration will feel, so putting feet together on your partner’s shoulders will immediately make something like missionary feel completely different,” commented Certified Sex Therapist Jessica Rubinstein. It should be noted that the study broke down which positions were best for which common sexual problems in addition to explaining why.  In addition to the aforementioned recommendation, here are some key findings from this study of 43 sex therapists and educators in the US and UK: 30% of experts said that the best position for delaying ejaculation is the spooning position, as it limits the depth and speed of thrusting and allows for better control. According to 35% of those surveyed, the best position for improving erection strength is doggy style, since it is less likely to obstruct blood flow to the penis and many find it very visually arousing. The most effective positions for enhancing intimacy are missionary (29%) and the lesser-known lotus or “yab yum” (30%) — these create the opportunity for eye contact and full-body caressing. For more information, check out Between Us Clinic’s survey here.  READ NEXT: Is your partner a man-child? No wonder you don’t feel like sex