Despite being told countless times to mind their own uteruses (uteri?), social media users don’t seem to have learned their lesson. The latest subject of their curiosity is influencer Mihlali Ndamase who sparked pregnancy rumours due to the fact that they think she doesn’t post pictures of herself as frequently as she used to.  Most recently, her followers overstepped their bounds when they filled her comments with premature congratulatory messages and questions about whether or not she was pregnant.  This is after she was pictured in a pink, satin A-line babydoll dress with an exaggerated bow across her chest.  “I suspect a pregnancy,” commented @zoe_coomaloe.  Her comment was met with agreement by Mihlali’s other followers.  “Pregnant?” asked @veemajola, to which Mihlali replied “ungenaphi?” (loosely translated to mean, what does that have to do with you?).  “Congratulations on your pregnancy, wow this is amazing!” added @thandee44 before Mihlali lost her cool, telling her “suk’ndiphapela wena”.  “She’s definitely pregnant, she’s been hiding herself these days” wrote @thato_mgege.  Mihlali is not the only one battling nosy social media users.  Reality TV star and former Big Brother contestant Mpho Wabadimo (real name Michelle Mvundla) has been shying away from prying eyes after rumours that she and her boyfriend Themba Broly (Themba Karabo Mabaso) got married and are expecting their first child together.  ALSO READ: Meet the ‘Love & Hip Hop SA’ cast They sparked marriage rumours in December when Mpho was pictured wearing what looks like traditional Tsonga wedding attire and they even played up the rumours when they played a couple that was getting married on etv drama, The Black Door.  7 days to go???????????? The waiting is too much my King and Queen to see you both again on my screen ❤️❤️❤️THEMBA INKED WORLD #ThembaBroly #MphoWaBadimo???? pic.twitter.com/zzApHadJpF— Mbally Mkhize (@mbally_mkhize) January 27, 2023 Mpho also appeared to be pregnant in promotional photos for Themba’s upcoming reality show as well as in a video posted on her Instagram stories where she was preparing to take to the stage at a recent public appearance.  #MphoWaBadimo is very pregnant, little gostie on the way https://t.co/w5iV5QGeRx— Refzo (@ravfo) January 1, 2023 The show is called Themba: My Inked World and it will begin airing on Mzansi Magic (DStv channel 161) on Friday, 3 February, at 8pm.  The reality show starring the BBMzansi alum will follow him as he navigates life’s pressures while rebuilding his life.  “Before entering the Big Brother House, Themba had lost everything after his tattoo parlour burned down. Now, with a new home partially paid for by his fans, a music EP on streaming services, and in a high-profile relationship with BBMzansi season 3 winner, Mpho Wabadimo, he’s determined to soar to the greatest heights of his life,” explained the channel in a statement.  Themba already has two children from a previous relationship and if the pregnancy speculation is true, he and Mpho would be adding one more baby to the mix making for quite an interesting dynamic on their reality show.  READ NEXT: Naomi Osaka announces pregnancy