The transfer window in the Premier Soccer League (PSL) slams shut on Tuesday night but there are still a few deals that could happen just before the deadline.  ALSO READ: Zwane on Khune/Kwinika omission: ‘There’s been individual errors’ Transfer season is always an exciting time for the supporters who expect their teams to beef up their squad to be more competitive.  And with Mamelodi Sundowns dominating again in the PSL, it has put pressure on the other teams to up their game in the transfer market.  Orlando Pirates have already brought in Cameroonian striker Suaibou Marou. And so have Kaizer Chiefs with Christian Saile.  Both have also signed pre-contracts with players from other teams who will officially join them in July when the PSL season has ended.  Here we take a look at four big deadline day deals that could still happen in the PSL. Usuthu and Pirates have a good working relationship and it would not be surprising if the two clubs decided that the transfer happens now.   AmaZulu coach Romain Folz seems to be already planning for life after Makhaula as he now uses him a lot less than he did.  Pirates could sweeten the deal by offering Usuthu a player or two for them to release their hard working captain.  This means he will leave Marumo at the end of the season. But the Limpopo side may release him now as they will need players who are fully committed in their fight to avert relegation.  Phakaaathi understands that Usuthu coach Romain Folz is a big admirer of Ngema who he worked with for a short while at Gallants and it was Folz who proposed the transfer. It has since emerged that Royal AM have opened their arms to the striker should he need a new home.  And with the league already out of reach, Hunt may just let Gabuza go now so he start looking in the transfer market to see who he can get to fill the space.  ALSO READ: Chiefs will have to wait it out for Stellenbosch duo In fact, rumours suggest he would rather go to the other Soweto giants, Kaizer Chiefs.  But the relationship between Pirates and Arrows has always been amicable and the two clubs can easily agree on a transfer.