Just when we thought we had a brief respite from the drama of Black Coffee and Enhle Mbali Mlotshwa’s messy breakup, the pair declared on their respective social media accounts, that they were ready for some tell-all interviews to further air out the dirty laundry of their marriage.  Tweeting from Mexico, the booked and busy DJ (real name Nkosinathi Maphumulo) said, “Ready to come and chill Gents @Solphendukaa @MacGUnleashed”.  Though he did not state what he was planning on speaking to the Podcast and Chill hosts about, Black Coffee sent Twitter into a frenzy with many assuming that the interview would be about his ex-wife and his recent series of tweets lamenting one of her posts over the festive season.  Others criticised the DJ for his choice of platform as Podcast and Chill has become known by some groups across social media as a safe haven for alleged abusers and overt misogynists.  Black Coffee could have used ANY OTHER platform to tell his story. He has the resources to do it on his own socials but he's going to THAT podcast because he knows the audience and he knows the hosts will make sure to structure the "interview" to attack & discredit Enhle further— squishy ⚧️ (@AnaFourie) January 15, 2023 My concern is that Black Coffee must not use platform to extricate himself from wrongdoing and only act a victimHe did wrong in his marriage and well to date there is no evidence Enhle was cheating thenAnyway as said must not play solely victim#PodcastAndChill https://t.co/6m8H8Ha6cI— FORÇA PORTUGAL ???????? :FIFA WORLD CUP (@KB_Ramasimong) January 15, 2023 You had kids outside your marriage start there. https://t.co/az3pTPxUZN— Tumisang Reginald (@Tumee_3006) January 15, 2023 Like a moth drawn to a flame the misogynists are drawn to MacG… https://t.co/iGy8KNLBX7— Amanda ???? (@AmandaBRinquest) January 14, 2023 Social media users weren’t the only ones reacting to the DJ’s declaration as his tweet seems to have gotten back to his ex-wife who demanded they be interviewed by a platform like CNN instead.  “This guy is [too[ much. I want an interview, both of us [in] one room CNN! The email I just read! Now planting stuff!! It’s getting increasingly dangerous!” she posted on her Instagram stories on Monday.  She added that the public nature of their break up has also been “unnecessary and a bore”.If you want everything to be spoken of, let’s do it, be brave enough to come at me straight,” she added.  This is the pair’s most recent public fight after Black Coffee was triggered by a post that Enhle put up on her Instagram marking the 16 Days of Activism period ahead of the festive season.  ALSO READ: Black Coffee denies Enhle Mbali’s abuse claims He shared his thoughts in a series of tweets that came after some musings about mental health that were preceded by the declaration that he is “not okay”. Addressing the May 2021 claims by his ex-wife that he was physically abusive towards her during their marriage, the DJ tweeted: “The day my ex accused me of physically harming her, nothing was the same. It has left a heavy void in my heart, a void I can’t shake off. I lost a big part of myself, no court of law could ever fix the pain and shame I still carry today. “My late father was abusive, to see her continue to ride that wave as a victim using me and using some of my tweets about it on that swimwear as an activist is quite dark and irresponsible. She knows people who abused her, she must confront them and leave me alone.” “I appreciate your tweets and respect all your opinions, however, I didn’t tweet so you can ‘believe me’. “I needed to get this off my chest and I need her to stop making me the face of her GBV campaigns… I’m not the one,” he concluded. This was in response to an image of her wearing a swimsuit covered in words. The phrases “make another one”, “gold digger”, “heal”, “you leave with nothing”, can be seen on the swimsuit. Shortly after this spat, Enhle was accused of having an affair with a married man. The accusations came from a woman named Valentine Bango and her husband, a man named Justice Huni, has since denied his wife’s allegations.  READ NEXT: ‘One of the boys’ – Husband accused of having affair with Enhle Mbali defends her