Dar es Salaam. The minister for Foreign Affairs and East African Cooperation, Dr Stergomena Tax, yesterday emphasised that cooperation with partners and international relations were still the government’s priorities as she met members of the diplomatic corps. Dr Tax had her first briefing with the foreign diplomats and international organisations which operate in Tanzania, in Dar es Salaam. She said Tanzania is reviewing her Foreign Policy of 2001 to have a policy that puts economic diplomacy at the centre stage of the economic development and align it with recent global developments. “We are in a process of reviewing our Foreign Policy of 2001, we expect to have a new policy by the end of the year and the on-going review has put economic diplomacy at the centre stage,” she said. She added that bilateral cooperation remains at the centre of Tanzania’s diplomatic engagements as witnessed in the past one year where a number of successes have been registered through engagements. Dr Tax further added that as a result of the meetings and forums, a number of agreements have been signed as well as witnessing bilateral dialogue which brought solution to long standing challenges such as the Non-Tariff Barriers (NTBs) between countries. “Tanzania is in the process of stepping up its efforts to advance contacts and engagements,” she said, adding that the continuation of joint commissions, business forums, missions and working visits add value to the relations. She emphasised that Tanzania bilateral engagements have been significantly enhanced through high level visits by President Samia Suluhu Hassan who has attended international and regional engagements and visited some of the countries in person or by being represented by other leaders. Dr Tax assured the diplomats that Tanzania is eager at deepening cooperation across all sectors and will continue collaborating with them for mutual benefits. For his part, the dean of diplomatic corps and ambassador of the Comoro in the country, Dr Ahmada El Badaoui Mohamed, assured their commitment to work closely with the government of Tanzania.