If there is no “transition in leadership”, South Africa could be “doomed as a country,” former Wits vice-chancellor Adam Habib has warned as the country continues to battle chronic load shedding. Households and businesses have been suffering under the devastating impact of load shedding with angry and frustrated South Africans calling on President Cyril Ramaphosa to find a solution to the crisis. The deepening energy crisis forced Ramaphosa to cancel his working visit to the World Economic Forum (WEF) in Davos, due to the persistent load shedding. The current set of leaders are not doing a good job, Habib said. “It is striking how many opportunists – ANC Youth League, COSATU, SACP, EFF and ANC – are now complaining about load shedding. Yet they are the architects of this crisis by advancing cadre deployment, non-meritocratic appointment, Zuma’s appointment as President and their general lawlessness.” “And if you listen to their current political rhetoric, they have learnt nothing. They [are] still immersed in nonsensical rhetoric, unrealistic proposals and protests that are still violent prone. I have said before, SA’s curse is its politicians, including those masquerading as activists,” he tweeted. It is striking how many opportunists – ANC Youth League, COSATU, SACP, EFF & ANC -are now complaining about load shedding. Yet they are the architects of this crisis by advancing cadre deployment,non-meritocratic appts,Zuma’s appointment as President & their general lawlessness.— Adam Habib (@AdHabb) January 17, 2023 ALSO READ: ‘Change government to save SA from load shedding’ – Holomisa Habib questioned whether a new generation could make a difference in the country. “The young here are as bad as the older generation. They have been acculturated in the parties and have become politicians who want their turn in the feeding frenzy and are as incompetent as their predecessors. “Could a new generation lead us out of this mess? Yes; but they have to come from outside the parties…Those who are not politically tainted by the grubby parties – to power in the state and in public institutions. Without this transition in leadership, we are doomed as a country.” Earlier this week, United Democratic Movement (UDM) leader Bantu Holomisa echoed Habib’s words saying the government must be changed to save South Africa from the asphyxiation of the energy and load shedding crisis, United Democratic Movement (UDM) leader Bantu Holomisa said earlier this week, echoing Habib’s words. South Africa needs a new government, Holomisa said. “You must change the government because the ANC is using Eskom as a cash cow for themselves,” he said.  ALSO READ: South Africa is dying Mr. President, what are you doing about it?