Dar es Salaam. Defending champions, Young Africans (Yanga), today face Rhino Rangers of Tabora at the Benjamin Mkapa Stadium in Dar es Salaam as the Azam Federation Cup matches continue at four different venues. Apart from the encounter, Mashujaa of Kigoma are playing today against Tanzania Prisons at the Uhuru Stadium while Kagera Sugar are meeting Kengold FC at the Kaitaba Stadium and Namungo FC will be facing Ihefu FC at the Majaliwa Stadium in Lindi. The matches are very important for all the eight teams in order for them to qualify for the top 16 of the competition. Already Mapinduzi FC have qualified for the top 16 of the competition after winning 4-3 on penalties and eliminating Polisi Katavi after they recording a barren draw in regulation time. The other team that have qualified for the stage are JKT Tanzania who eliminated Polisi Tanzania on penalties to win 5-4 after a 1-1 draw in regulation time. Also, on the list are Green Warriors who won 2-1 over Mbuni FC at the Uhuru Stadium while Mtibwa Sugar beat Buhaya FC 4-0 and Azam FC recorded 4-1 victory over Dodoma Jiji FC. As the five teams celebrate to qualify for the next stage of the tournament, the concentration of football fans will likely be on the match between Yanga and Rhino Rangers at the Benjamin Mkapa Stadium. The Yanga-Rhino Rangers encounter is expected to be the most thrilling one as each team will be targeting victory. Yanga. who won last year’s edition, have the same mission and vision of clinching the title for the third time in their history. Rhino Rangers, for their part, will be targeting to make history by eliminating the defending champions in the competition. Speaking on the eve of the match, Yanga head coach Nesreddine Nabi said he is confident that he will conquer the game and eliminate the army-men. “We have the obligation of winning every match, starting with Rhino Rangers. It is our responsibility to make our fans happy,” said Nabi. “So, I am looking forward to winning this match, my players will be 100 per cent committed on the pitch. I understand that we are going to face one of the best teams in the tournament, but we are the best team to sail through,” he said.