Dar es Salaam. Eleven out of 16 Mainland Tanzania top flight teams have qualified into the next stage of the Azam Sports Federation Cup. This means that five Mainland Premier League teams have been knocked out in the competition that its winner will represent the country in the African Confederation Cup also known as CAF Confederation Cup. The premiership teams that have been knocked out in the competition are Namungo FC, Coastal Union, Ruvu Shooting, Polisi Tanzania and Dodoma Jiji FC. Police Tanzania were defeated by JKT Tanzania as Namungo lost to Ihefu and Ruvu Shooting exiting following defeat at the hands of Singida Big Stars. Dodoma Jiji FC were knocked out by Azam FC while Polisi Tanzania were knocked out by the championship squad (previously known as first tier league JKT Tanzania). The last edition’s finalist, Coastal Union, were eliminated by Simba. According to the schedule, the reigning champion Yanga will face Tanzania Prisons in the next round of the competition. Yanga issued a warning to all 15 clubs after crushing Rhino of Tabora in the First League (second level league). Yanga won 7-0 at Benjamin Mkapa Stadium on Sunday night. As Yanga faces a difficult task, Azam FC will play Mapinduzi FC of Mwanza at the Azam Complex in the city. Mapinduzi FC will compete in the Regional Championship League (RCL), while Simba will face African Sports of Tanga. African Sports compete in the Championship League. Moreover, the fixture shows that Geita Gold will face Championship side Green Warriors, Singida Big Stars will face JKT Tanzania, Mtibwa Sugar will face Kinondoni Municipal Council (KMC), and Kagera Sugar will face Mbeya City. Ihefu FC will also face Championship side Pan African. The matches are expected to take place between March 4 and 6 while the quarter-final stage will be played from March 31 to April 2 and the semi-final games are expected to be played on April 29 and 30 while the final match will be played after the end of Mainland Tanzania Premier League on May 28.