Controversial football administrator Sinky Mnisi has left Royal AM but says he will not divulge the details pertaining to his decision to leave the flamboyant club. ALSO READ: ‘We know how to hurt Sundowns,’ says Chiefs’ Mshini Ngcobo Mnisi, who served as the chiefs executive at the club, had allegedly been suspended by the club but he called a media briefing to deny this and even called out Phakaaathi’s Mgosi Squad out for spreading lies.  But when he spoke to Ukhozi FM on Wednesday where he confirmed that he was leaving Royal AM, Mnisi admitted that he might have denied something he knew.  “The decision was made last week and I finalised it yesterday (Tuesday). Look, I think I played my role at Royal AM,” said Mnisi.  “I am thankful that Royal AM allowed me the opportunity to come and showcase skills and knowledge in football administration – the little that I have.” “I don’t think I need to explain what happened. I worked and got where I got. There is however one thing that does not sit well with me that I need to talk about.  “To the players, I never had the time to talk to them when I left, thank you for the cordial working relationship.  “This page is closed now and I am taking a break now. I will rest,” explained the legendary administrator.  Mnisi had given himself ‘special leave’ to deal with issues. He had accused the club’s owner Shauwn Mkhize of not protecting him when the media reported that he had been suspended.  He says the decision to leave the club came after the ‘special leave’ ended in December. “Actually, the special leave was supposed to end on 28 December, but I will not go into too much detail about it.  “I am someone who, when he has a wife and we separate, whatever we did in the bedroom during our time stays there.  “My leave ended on 28 December and then after that I felt that I had sacrificed a lot for Royal AM but there were the talks that you know about.  “I denied that talk at the time, but what is important is that I have decided to leave Royal AM.  “I feel I have done enough for the team and I should now move on. Once there is mistrust between two parties, it becomes difficult to work.  “Therefore I don’t want to work hard when I know my heart is not there,” added Mnisi. He said his work spoke for itself at the club.