In this week’s royal update more honest reflection from Prince Harry’s Spare memoir, a lounge club offers to help Harry and Prince William reunite and the Wales show a united front.  Once considered one of the British favourite royals, Prince Harry’s popularity has dipped since the release of his memoir Spare.  Opinion of Harry has been quite divided amongst royal watchers and the general public however the Duke of Sussex is continuing to make much publicity.  During an interview with The Telegraph Harry predicted that his fate as “Spare” was likely going to happen to one of Prince William’s children. Harry has since revealed his tense relationship with his brother often describing it as highly competitive, stubborn, him being overlooked by his brother, however, despite all of this, there was a lot of love between them.  ALSO READ: Harry reconciliation with royal family ‘possible’ before coronation: report Prince William is next in line to the throne after his father King Charles III.  William’s children with the Princess of Wales, Kate Middleton, Prince George, Princess Charlotte and Prince Louis, William’s children with the Princess of Wales, Kate Middleton, are in the line of succession for the British throne after their father.  Based on his experiences as ‘Spare’ hardships will happen to other children in the royal family, Harry says. His family nicknamed him the spare at a young age, Harry claims. “As I know full well – within my family – if it’s not us (me and my brother) it’s going to be someone else,”  Harry said.  The best-selling author explained that he has tried to talk to Willam about this however William “has made it very clear that his kids are not his (Harry’s) responsibility. “I still feel a responsibility knowing that one of those three children, at least one will end up like me, the Spare and that hurts, that worries me.” He used to be summoned, provided as backup, distraction and diversion when necessary for William, Harry added in his interview with The Telegraph.  Buckingham Palace is still mum on Harry’s claims. Former Top Gear presenter Jeremy Clarkson on Monday apologised for a much-criticised column he wrote in The Sun tabloid saying he hated Prince Harry’s wife Meghan.  He dreamed of the day when Meghan “is made to parade naked through the streets of every town in Britain while the crowds chant ‘shame!’ and throw lumps of excrement at her”, Clarkson, 62, wrote last month. The piece triggered a wave of protest and became the UK Independent Press Standards Organisation’s most complained-about article. It was “horrific and… hurtful and cruel towards my wife”, Harry himself said in a television interview broadcast on January 8. It encouraged misogyny around the world, he also said. Clarkson wrote on Instagram: “I really am sorry… This is me putting my hands up. It’s a mea culpa with bells on.”  In the column commenting on Harry and Meghan’s Netflix documentary series, Clarkson said of Meghan: “I hate her on a cellular level”. Clarkson gained global fame by presenting the popular BBC motoring show Top Gear but was dropped as host in 2015 for assaulting a male producer. He now makes a similar show for Amazon, as well as a documentary series about farming. Clarkson wrote in his apology that he sent his column to The Sun without reading it out to anyone – as he usually does – and only realised later that what he wrote was “horrible”. “I abhor violence against women,” he added but conceded the column “seemed to be advocating for just that”. Known for his provocative columns often espousing right-wing political views, the presenter also claimed that he had been referring to a scene from the Game of Thrones series. But he said he forgot to specify this. It was “sincerely sorry” for the publication and had removed the column from its website and archive, The Sun said in late December.  The tabloid had not been in touch with them directly, Harry and Meghan said on Christmas Eve, slamming the newspaper’s statement on its website as “nothing more than a PR stunt”. He emailed the couple on Christmas Day to apologise, telling them “the language I’d used in my column was disgraceful and that I was profoundly sorry”, Clarkson said on Monday. He vowed to try to be “vigilant” in future, saying he may switch to writing about becoming a grandfather. Because the public spat between Harry and William has been very public, some establishments are seeing an opportunity for the brothers to end their differences.  Bouji in London, a nightclub the two were frequent visitors to, announced it will reopen its doors after closing nearly a decade ago in 2014.  Co-Owner Carlo Carello of the nightclub told the Sunday Times that he would like the Princes to join them during the relaunch, co-owner Carlo Carello of the nightclub told the Sunday Times . Carello hopes the reignited good times will give Harry and Wiliam a “happy ending”. During its heydays, Bouji attracted stars such as Paris Hilton, the late Prince,  Rihanna and royals Princess Eugenie and Beatrice.  The Prince and Princess of Wales, Prince William and Kate Middleton, were seen last week at the Royal Liverpool University Hospital  The couple was seen all smiles notwithstanding the family turmoil. William and Kate’s visit included meeting nurses and first responders and seeing first-hand the new, state-of-the-art hospital.  READ NOW: Prince Harry’s Spare breaks record: Fastest selling non fiction of all time Additional reporting AFP