On same day that SVI Engineering introduced its bulletproof take on the Nissan Patrol, rival armoured vehicle manufacturer, Armormax, has introduced it’s latest offering based on the Volkswagen Golf 8 GTI. A project that comes on the back of the firm’s introduction of an armoured version of the preceding Golf 7.5 in 2018, the B4 level protected GTI wasn’t viewed as much of a challenge despite being new from the 7.5. Also Read: SVI exerts stringent armoured scrutiny on Nissan Patrol “The B4 Golf was a daring project back in 2018 but was met with immense interest and several orders were taken,” Armormax Marketing Manager Michael Broom said in a statement. “There was never a question that we would develop the world’s first armouring package for the new model, knowing that there would be a high demand.” Tipping the scales at “less than 180 kg”, the modifications to the GTI includes replacing the standard glass with ballistics glass, constructing the tailgate, doors, side panels, roof pillars and even the rear seats out of lightweight synthetic armour and fitting a PPT intercom system. ALSO READ: Golf 8 GTI even faster than what Volkswagen is telling us In addition to the windows, models specified with the optional sunroof have had their conventional glass swapped-out for the ballistics composite. Despite not disclosing outright which weapons the B4 package can withstand, a quick glance at the firm’s website confirms the ability to provide protection against handguns and shotguns ranging from a nine-millimetre pistol to a .44 Magnum. As for performance, the combination of the 180kW/370Nm 2.0 TSI engine and seven-speed DSG remains unchanged, though expect the 6.4 second sprint from 0-100 km/h to be significantly prolonged thanks to the added weight. The claimed top speed is likely to be stagnant at 250 km/h. In announcing the B4 Golf GTI, Broom also confirmed that two units have already been made; a so-called off the shelf model priced at R1 800 000, and a lower specification black example retailing for R1 700 000. Complete details about the armoured GTI and Armormax itself can be found by clicking here.