English Championship leaders Burnley on Wednesday confirmed the signing of Bafana Bafana striker Lyle Foster from Westerlo in Belgium. OPINION: Foster’s Burnley move could be good for him and Bafana Bafana Vincent Kompany’s side made the announcement with an amusing video parody of the well-loved cartoon Shrek. In the video Farquaad is shown by the magic mirror three options for a January striking signing: Lionel Messi, Cristiano Ronaldo, and Foster. And he chooses the Bafana striker!  Once upon a time… ???? pic.twitter.com/7V18jjZLg8— Burnley FC (@BurnleyOfficial) January 25, 2023 Even before that they hinted at a South African signing with what appears to be a gif of a leaping springbo pic.twitter.com/MlPcicBwyR— Burnley FC (@BurnleyOfficial) January 25, 2023 Give a warm welcome to South African international Lyle Foster from Belgian side K.V.C. Westerlo for an undisclosed fee ????????The 22-year-old striker has penned a four-and-a-half-year deal at Turf Moor and becomes the Clarets’ third signing of the January transfer window ✍️— Burnley FC (@BurnleyOfficial) January 25, 2023 The fee for the 22 year-old former Orlando Pirates attacker is reported to be 7 million Euros, which could rise to 10 million Euros if Burnley gain promotion to the English Premier League.  ???????????????????????????????? #BurnleyFC finally got it! Agreement in place with #Westerlo for Lyle #Foster of 7M€ that could go to 10M€ in case of promotion in #PremierLeague ! As announced yesterday, Lyle #Foster already agreed personal terms with #Burnley. #Westerlo #mercato #JPL pic.twitter.com/CWcktMKBsj— Sacha Tavolieri (@sachatavolieri) January 21, 2023 That looks highly likely this season as the Clarets are flying high at the top of the table, with former Manchester City and Belgium defender Kompany doing a fantastic job at Turf Moor.  “I’m very happy to be here, I’m blessed and thankful for the opportunity and I just can’t wait to get started,” said Foster, according to Burnley’s official website.  “From the moment I heard that there was interest from Burnley, my heart and my head were set on the club. I’m so happy to be here now. It’s a dream for me.” Burnley are currently five points clear of Sheffield United at the top of the Championship and 18 points ahead of third-placed Watford, with the top two in the table guaranteed promotion to the English Premier League.  The Clarets’ next game is an FA Cup fourth round match at Ipswich this weekend, before they resume their league campaign at Norwich on February 4.