Arthur Zwane has admitted that his Kaizer Chiefs team felt the pressure going into their DStv Premiership game against Royal AM on Sunday.  ALSO READ: Chiefs’ Maart opens up about Puskas snub Chiefs had to break out of the rut they were in as they had lost three games in a row in 2023 and not scored a single goal in the process.  The bad results were already weighing heavy on Zwane’s shoulders and he had to get a result against the Durban side.  And they did manage to get the three points, with Sifiso Hlanti and Ashley Du Preez scoring second half goals in a 2-0 win at the Peter Mokaba Stadium in Polokwane. “Obviously we came into this game knowing the importance of grinding out the result,” Zwane said after the game.  “We had been playing well, the only thing that was missing was scoring. And we were also conceding silly goals.  “But we always knew we would turn things around at some point. I think Polokwane gives us luck.  “It is the luck that we needed to break the ice. We needed to break the ice in many ways.  “We were playing a team that has always been like a hoodoo team. For the past three seasons we struggled to beat them.  “This year, we had not scored a goal and conceded six. We wanted to break that as well – score a goal and keep a clean sheet,” added Zwane. The Chiefs mentor also credited his players for giving their all on the field in a difficult game played in rainy weather.   “The boys deserve credit, they did well. We always knew that if we put them under pressure and not allow them time and space on the ball, they would suffocate because of the altitude.  ALSO READ: Chiefs down Royal AM to finally get first win of 2023 “In the first 15 to 20 minutes we wanted to make sure that they don’t break us, but also force them into making mistakes.” Zwane will hope his team will keep their momentum when they meet another nemesis in TS Galaxy at Mbombela Stadium on Sunday.  Galaxy are one of the teams who enjoy playing Chiefs and have had the better of the Soweto side in the past.