The Department of Basic Education confirmed that the review of the matric results for 2022 is on track. The results for the Class of 2022 are currently being processed and the release date has been scheduled for 20 January, the department said on Monday. The department said matriculants will be able to collect their results “at the centre where they sat for the 2022 National Senior Certificate (NSC) examinations”. Pupils in Gauteng, Free State, Limpopo, Mpumalanga and the North West, who return to school this year, will return to the classroom on Wednesday, 11 January, when the 2023 academic year kicks off. Meanwhile, pupils in the Eastern Cape, KwaZulu-Natal, Northern Cape and Western Cape will return to school on 18 January. Pupils who have not met the requirement to pass the NSC examinations will have a second chance to get their grades in order. Registration for the department’s Second Chance Matric Programme closes on Monday, 9 January. ALSO READ: Education activist calls for 50% pass mark for all grades The programme is also available to those who passed their exams but wish to improve their results.To register for the programme online go to www.eservices.gov.za or visit any Department of Basic Education office with an ID document and statement of results. The programme assisted more than 400 000 pupils “to achieve their subject passes towards their NSC or SC qualification”, as confirmed by Minister Angie Motshekga in October 2022. She said at the time: “The programme plays an important role in retaining learners beyond the formal schooling programme”. “Learners who are disappointed by their failure or poor performance at the end of their schooling career, are able to continue with their studies at their own pace.” ALSO READ: Matric Exams: Class of 2022 ready to pick up their pens Other programmes and initiatives are available to assist those who have not had the opportunity to complete their NSC examinations or those who do not qualify for higher education. Simply register at any of the Community Education and Training (CET) colleges across the country for additional training and academic learning opportunities. The Department of Education said CET colleges assist “post-school youth and adults who wish to raise the base for further learning”. By enrolling at a CET college, students and adults “improve their skills for employability and progression to opportunities in the TVET colleges and university education.” NOW READ: Education system is failing SA’s kids, and we owe it to them to fix it