Springbok lock Eben Etzebeth was thrilled to be recognised among some of the all-time Springbok greats after being named SA Rugby Player of the Year for 2022 on Tuesday. It is the first time Etzebeth has received the coveted award, and sees the Springbok centurion take the trophy from his national captain and Sharks team-mate, Siya Kolisi, who claimed the title in 2021. ALSO READ: Five Bok stars in line for SA Rugby Player of the Year award Despite being named the best Springbok player of the past year, Etzebeth was as humble as ever, choosing to focus more on the team and other players who had impressed. “It is obviously a great privilege. I had a look at the names on the trophy and there are some wonderful individuals on there,” said Etzebeth. “But we all know rugby is a team sport and I would like to congratulate the other nominees. They were all fantastic and there are so many other guys who don’t always get recognised. But it is really nice to win this trophy and get it for the first time. “It is always special getting recognised as an individual in a team sport, but you always put the team first and want the team to do well.” It might come as a surprise to some that at 31-years-old and having played over a hundred games for the Boks, that Etzebeth would only be receiving the award for the first time now, but he admits that he is continuously motivated to keep improving and playing at the highest level every year. “For me it’s quite simple, just playing for the Springboks is the biggest motivation. It is such an honour representing my country every weekend and just seeing where we go and the support we get,” said Etzebeth. “Seeing new guys come through the system and how special it is for them is also great. I am lucky enough to call this my job and what a job to have. I always want to try and get better at it and it is an awesome experience.” It is a big year for the Boks with them set to defend their World Cup title at the showpiece event in France, kicking off in September and Etzebeth is looking forward to the challenge. “It is a big year for all the players and coaches. This is the first time for many of us going into a World Cup as defending champions. So it is going to be a great challenge for us and we are all excited,” said Etzebeth. A whole host of other award winners were also named by SA Rugby on Tuesday, with Nadine Roos picking up the Springbok women’s player of the year award, Canan Moodie the SA Rugby young player of year, JC Pretorius the Springbok sevens player of the year and Sacha Feinberg-Mngomezulu the junior Springbok player of the year. The Stormers were named team of the year for their inaugural United Rugby Championship title win, while their coach John Dobson was then duly named coach of the year to round out the major award winners.