Kaizer Chiefs have been crippled partly by the inability to get all the top players available in the transfer market like before.  ALSO READ: Five things you might not know about Lyle Foster This was an admission made by current club coach Arthur Zwane this week as Chiefs prepare for a big DStv Premiership match against Royal AM.  Speaking at the club’s homebase in Naturena on Thursday, Zwane was asked if the club could still carry its winning culture from the old days. “The club was built on a winning culture,” answered Zwane who is under sizable pressure with results not going his way in recent times. “There will always be challenges and changes because times are not the same. The game has evolved and everyone’s competing in the market.  “It is unlike in the old days where Kaizer Chiefs had so much control, getting any player they wanted. “Everyone now can compete with Kaizer Chiefs when they want a player. That makes life difficult here and there for the club to get the players.  “We end up having to go for the second best player in that regard. But winning is still one of the top things for the club.” Chiefs have lost out on a number of good players that they had their eyes on in the past couple of years as more teams now have the financial muscle to compete.  It is, however, mostly Mamelodi Sundowns who beat everyone to the best players as they have deep pockets and are unafraid to pay.  There is now also Royal AM, Sekhukhune United and AmaZulu FC who can compete for the top available players. Chiefs have in recent years been unaggressive in the transfer market, preferring to go and find players outside the country.  ALSO READ: Lack of goals at Chiefs gives Sekgota sleepless nights But most of those have proved to be flops and never really made an impact or helped the club’s course in any way.  Zwane, meanwhile, also revealed that his new striker Christian Saile Basomboli is unlikely to feature when they play against Royal AM on Sunday.  Saile is still awaiting his work permit. Chiefs and Royal AM will do battle at the Peter Mokaba Stadium in Polokwane.