All eyes will be on the South Gauteng High Court in Johannesburg on Thursday as the first high-profile legal showdown for 2023 gets underway. The full bench of the high court is set to hear President Cyril Ramaphosa’s urgent interdict application to halt the private prosecution against him by his predecessor, Jacob Zuma. ALSO READ: Zuma has ‘deliberately misconceived’ grounds on which case is made, says Ramaphosa in affidavit The president approached the high court on an urgent basis after Zuma – on the eve of the ANC’s 55th elective conference in December – charged him with being an “accessory after the fact” in relation to charges the former president is pursuing against senior state prosecutor Billy Downer and journalist Karyn Maughan.  Last year, Zuma charged Downer and Maughan with contravening the National Prosecuting Authority (NPA) Act over the disclosure of a medical note filed in court, on 9 August 2021, during Zuma’s arms deal corruption trial. Ramaphosa said he approached the courts on an urgent basis to challenge the “unlawful, unconstitutional and invalid” summons and private prosecution against him set down for 19 January. He has argued in court papers that Zuma’s private prosecution bid is invalid and should be set aside because the nolle prosequi certificate issued to the former president by the NPA did not apply to him in the Downer/Maughan prosecution. This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. This is a modal window. This modal can be closed by pressing the Escape key or activating the close button. Zuma, on the other hand, wants Ramaphosa’s urgent interdict application to be dismissed and struck off the court roll with costs. The interim interdict application will be heard by deputy judge-president Roland Sutherland and judges Edwin Molahlehi and Marcus Senyatsi. Compiled by Thapelo Lekabe. NOW READ: Zuma pleased ‘sanity has prevailed’ for Ramaphosa regarding private prosecution