Here’s your morning news update: An easy-to-read selection of our top stories. Stay up to date with The Citizen – More News, Your Way The Jacob Zuma Foundation said it feels vindicated in its misgivings about South Africa’s justice system after the South Gauteng High Court’s decision to grant President Cyril Ramaphosa an urgent interim interdict against private prosecution by the former president. The full bench of the high court delivered its judgment on the matter on Monday. Last week the court heard marathon arguments from Ramaphosa and Zuma’s legal teams in the president’s bid to block the summons for him to appear in court in private prosecution proceedings instituted by Zuma. ALSO READ: Ramaphosa’s legal team argues Zuma is trampling on his constitutional rights The council for quality assurance in education, Umalusi, has given the green light for the release of the 2022 matric results. Umalusi briefed the media on Monday, with the National Senior Certificate (NSC) examination results set to be released later this week. During the press conference, Umalusi CEO Mafu Rakometsi said Covid-19 delayed the release of the matric results. In March this year, Eskom will be toasting its 100th anniversary – but frustrated South Africans will not be in any mood to celebrate with the power utility. If any South African wanted to check Eskom’s website for an update on load shedding, they would come across a countdown to the centenary. Digging a little further, they will be directed to Eskom’s heritage site. Here, the power utility is headlining its celebration with the slogan “empowering the future together”. There is no apparent irony in this slogan. Miss South Africa Ndavi Nokeri has joined the rest of the world in congratulating the new Miss Universe winner R’Bonney Gabriel from the US.  In addition, Nokeri also offered her congratulations to runner-up Miss Venezuela Amanda Dudamel and second runner-up Miss Dominican Republic Andreina Martinez. Nokeri was among the contestants in the 70th annual Miss Universe pageant and she made it to the Top 16 of the competition. Springbok captain Siya Kolisi has given a heartfelt address to the players of the SA20 team, the Paarl Royals. In a video doing the rounds on social media, Kolisi is seen addressing the Royals players in their change-room, presumably after Sunday’s round-robin defeat by his “home team”, Durban’s Super Giants. Kolisi and a number of Sharks rugby players attended Sunday’s SA20 game at Kingsmead cricket ground in Durban.