Given the history of Kaizer Chiefs, who just turned 53 this month, Rulani Mokwena knows exactly why Amakhosi are still hopeful for a miracle this season, in the form of a late-season surge for the DStv Premiership title.  ALSO READ: Khune puts on brave face, seeks to inspire Chiefs against Downs Mamelodi Sundowns and the Glamour Boys meet at the FNB Stadium on Saturday night, and Masandawana head coach Mokwena says Chiefs’ title ambition will fuel them to get one over the defending champions. The odds are heavily stacked against Chiefs as they are facing an in-form Downs side who are on 11-game winning run in the Premiership.  Meanwhile, Arthur Zwane’s side are walking with their tails between their legs after suffering a 4-0 defeat at the mercy of AmaZulu last time out. They also trail leaders Sundowns by a whopping 19 points. “We will see two teams going for the results because Chiefs believe they can win the league,” said Mokwena.Despite Zwane’s 4-0 loss to Usuthu, Chiefs’ management still put their weight behind their former winger, and that pleases Mokwena as he has well wishes for Zwane. However, he will temporarily reserve his ‘good luck’ for his counterpart.“He would probably say the same thing, that he would love to see me doing well. But if he had to make a choice between myself and him, he would love to see himself winning. The fortunate part is that coaches don’t play the game of football. They are not the most important people because the game belongs to the players. ALSO READ: Zwane keeps faith in youngsters, says he is shaping Chiefs future“With all the admiration, patience and confidence that the club has shown in him, of course you would love to see a South African coach do well, but not at the expense of Sundowns. When you watch the team, you see the identity of a team that is well-coached and you see the work that is done,” added the Masandawana mentor.  “The most important thing for me is to acknowledge that he is doing good work. At the end of the day we are in a business of results. It is not about us but we are responsible for the results and it is good to see that Chiefs have put a lot of support in Zwane.”