A 50-year-old man was attacked by community members, with the angry mob setting his vehicle alight after a fatal drag race in Ekurhuleni.  This comes after tragedy struck on Sunday in the Daveyton area when two motor vehicles involved in an illegal drag race rammed into several pedestrians. The accident happened at the corner of Simunye Street and Madikizela Drive in Etwatwa. The The Ekurhuleni Metro Police Department (EMPD) said the driver of cars lost control during the race. “It is alleged that a white Toyota Etios and a white Nissan 1400 were engaged in an illegal drag race, when the driver of the Toyota Eros lost control of the vehicle and collided with a group of minors and adults. between the ages of 8 and 37 years old, who were walking on the sidewalk.” “An 8-vear-old boy died on the scene, and two 12-ycar-old boys who sustained slight injuries were transported to the nearest hospital for treatment. Three other pedestrians aged 12, 30 and 37 years old were treated for shock by emergency services,” the EMPD said. ALSO READ: Woman arrested for clocking 220km/h in VW Golf 7 The EMPD said the community took action against one driver for the accident. “The 50-year-old male driver of the Toyota Etios, who was attacked by community members and had his vehicle set alight was transported to the nearest hospital for treatment.”  “Furthermore. the unknown driver of the white Nissan 1400 fled the scene on foot to avoid the violent community members, who set alight his abandoned vehicle,” it said. The EMPD urged the community not to take the law into their own hands and report any illegal activity and drag racing to police. The fatal drag race comes just a day after a driver ran over pedestrians before crashing into a tree in Pretoria on Saturday. The incident, which took place around 5pm in Salvokop, left three children dead and several other people – including a pregnant woman – injured. Emer-G-Med said the driver fled the scene. “On arrival [at the] scene a BMW sedan was found to have left the roadway, striking seven pedestrians and killing three of them.” The South African Police Services (Saps) are investigating the incident.  ALSO READ: Driver flees scene as three children killed in Pretoria crash