Orlando Pirates midfielder Ntsako  Makhubela has returned to Golden Arrows on loan, Abafana Be’Sthende confirmed on Wednesday. ALSO READ: Malesela not angry with players despite Limpopo derby loss As reported by Mgosi Squad late last year, Makhubela was finding it hard to break into the Pirates starting line-up, which became the main reason for him to go seek for game time elsewhere. Arrows welcomed Makhubela back to the club, and the 28 year-old will be looking to hit the ground running. “New Signing. We welcome back Ntsako Neverdie Makhubela on loan from Orlando Pirates,” the club wrote on their official Twitter page. New Signing ✍️ We welcome back Ntsako Neverdie Makhubela on loan from Orlando Pirates. #sthendeway #greenandgold pic.twitter.com/RG1kTQfgmQ— Lamontville Golden Arrows FC (@goldenarrowsfc1) January 4, 2023 Makhubela joined the Buccaneers last season, and he made a number of appearances for the club as he came in with a lot of expectations. The midfielder fell of the radar as time went by, however, and his lack of game time was said to be worrying him. This season, it became much harder for him to fight for a place in the line-up as Pirates brought in Miguel Timm and Ndabayithwa Ndlondlo to add more to their midfielders in their squad. With the arrival of the two players, Makhubela didn’t get to play for the club in their last 14 league games or even feature in the MTN8, which they won after beating AmaZulu FC in a final played at Moses Mabhida Stadium last year. Making a return to Arrows might just be a good omen for Makhubela, who enjoyed many years of football with the club. He made his name at Abafana Be’Sthende and became a fan favourite with his silky touches and skill, which led to him beinge signed by the Soweto giants. Arrows this season have not been at their best, though they have got some decent results.  Having Makhubela back at the club might just be perfect for the KwaZulu-Natal outfit. They are currently in 10th place on the league standings with 16 points after 14 matches.