“Vehicle servicing” is a term often tinged with trepidation and not one many owners want to hear or be confronted with at all. The simple truth though is that serving once’s vehicle needs to happen eventually. As the saying goes, the human body is almost identical to a vehicle and if you don’t look after it, it will start to develop problems as time goes on. Admittedly, vehicle maintenance doesn’t come cheap, especially if the vehicle is out of warranty, but the flip side is that keeping-up with servicing it will be to its and your benefit in the long run. As such, motus.cars defines the practical aspects of a service and what it will mean for your vehicle, and your wallet, over the long run as the following: A minor, or small service, usually involves comparatively small but critical elements or parts such as the tyres, lights, wipers, oil level and filters, cooling system and water. ALSO READ: What to know about vehicle insurance policies Consequently, a major or big service involves more serious and often key mechanical components such as the engine, doors, CV joint and shock absorbers to name but a few.     When purchased new, a vehicle comes with or can be specified with a service plan that covers service costs over a certain time and up to a specific distance, for example four-year/60 000 km. The actual distance time between servicing, however, differs from vehicle to vehicle and marque to marque based on its engine and what of fuel is used. According to Motus though, a minor service should happen every 10 000km and a major every 40 000km once a vehicle’s service plan has been depleted. The exact length time servicing a vehicle is also open differences as these depend on not only the type of vehicle, but also whether the repairs needed are minor or major. In some instances, the required work takes a few hours but still renders the vehicle available for pick-up for the same day it was taken in. The opposite is, however, true of a major service that could take days or in some instances, weeks depending on what needs to be done. According to Motus, “Your vehicle is responsible for your safety and the safety of everyone inside. You certainly do not want your vehicle to fail you and endanger your life and the lives of others. Caring for your car should be as important as caring for your own health”. For more information, visit the motus.cars blog or their YouTube channel for other tips.