With stage 6 load shedding looking more and more like a permanent reality for South Africans, ways to beat the load-shedding blues are always welcome. One way to get around prolonged periods without power is to buy a fast-charging device that allows you to get as much battery life as you possibly can during the brief periods of electricity supply.  We take a look at some options for phones with fast charging capability under R6,000.  Often referred to as “quick charge”, Android Authority simplifies the concept by explaining that the idea is to provide more power to the battery via a USB port than the connector’s rather pitiful 2.5W of power.  This is why USB type C chargers are becoming the universal standard, they can be faster by default than the previously popular USB type A connector.  Affordable phones with fast-charging tech: According to Samsung, the Galaxy A23‘s Ambient Edge design connects the camera with the body seamlessly with simple but refined curves.  The slim and symmetric Galaxy A23 comes in a variety of colours and boasts a 50MP main camera, Optical Image Stabilisation technology, ultra-wide capabilities, and an octa-core processor.  You have the option to get the device with up to 8GB ram and 128GB internal storage with a micro SD slot for up to 1TB expandable storage.  The main downside to this device is that the 25W Super Fast charger doesn’t come standard and is sold separately.  Similar to the A23, the Xiaomi Redmi Note 11 comes with a 50MP AI quad rear camera, 13MP front camera, 128GB storage and 4GB RAM, dual sim, AI face unlock and an arc side fingerprint sensor.  According to the phone’s specifications, the Redmi Note 11 powers you up with 5000mAh large-capacity battery and 33W Pro fast charging that allows you to charge its battery from 0 to 100% in around one hour, while spending less time plugged in.  ALSO READ: ‘Stage 6 is a serious struggle for SMMEs’ – Tbo Touch  Described as easy on both the eyes and hands, this device with a 50MP main camera automatically adjusts the shutter to capture shots of scenes in motion, at sporting events and in daily life, with AI SnapShot, which harnesses Huawei’s exclusive motion detection algorithm.  The camera also allows you to blur out busy backgrounds to make the subject stand out. It comes with a 5000 mAh battery and a 22.5W Huawei SuperCharge feature that comes with Battery Safety Assistant and 20-Layer Battery Protection, to give you a quick boost at a moment’s notice. Nokia G21 can give you up to three days of battery life and comes with fast, efficient processing power. It also comes with 18W fast charge capability to top up your battery quicker when needed.  This device’s camera is a 50 MP triple camera with AI imaging, including main, depth and macro lenses. It also comes equipped with advanced low light imaging. Different brands have different names for their fast charging capabilities and Oppo’s is called  SUPERVOOC technology. The Oppo A57 comes with 33W SUPERVOOC capability to charge the device’s 5000mAh long-lasting battery.  READ NEXT: What to do (and not do) to properly charge your smartphone