Kgaogelo Sekgota would love to be on the scoresheet more constantly for Kaizer Chiefs but he takes comfort in knowing that he gives his best to make a contribution to the team.  ALSO READ: ‘We are happy for Blom, but we move on,’ says Chiefs midfielder Maart The attacker has been in promising form this season and has created chances for his teammates but he still feels he could add a little more with scoring.  “As a footballer not getting in the scoresheet is not a nice feeling,” said Sekgota this week ahead of their DStv Premiership game against Royal AM on Sunday afternoon. “But at the end of the day, if you do whatever it takes to help the team, you do it.  “The goals may come, or they may not come but you have to keep fighting and get better and better,” added Sekgota. Chiefs meet Royal AM who have become some sort of a hoodoo team to them having beaten them in all three times they have met since their formation.   “Royal AM are obviously a good team. We are looking forward to the game. Our technical team has been working hard and we are highly motivated.  “And we are looking forward to the Royal AM game –  may the best team win,” was all Sekgota would say on the game set for Peter Mokaba Stadium in Polokwane. Fighting to get his place back Sekgota admitted that he sometimes tries to trick the referees into giving his team set pieces. “Diving is… I don’t know what to say, it happens in a game. You happen to be in a situation and you have to do whatever it takes to maybe buy (the referee’s eyes)… That’s football.”  ALSO READ: Ertugral says Chiefs rebuilding process is just a fable When the season started, Sekgota was one of the first names Chiefs coach Arthur Zwane would pen in when setting his starting team.  But he has fallen down the pecking order in recent times and makes appearances from the bench. “Football is a game of opportunities and I think we have a big squad with good players. “Whoever plays deserves it and the most important is winning the match for the club.  “Obviously as a player you always work hard to get to play. And when you get the chance to play it is something you should be grateful for and work hard to get the team positive results.  “We have a good coach and good players around. I mean football is about the opponent also.  “When facing an opponent the coach will have his tactics for that specific opponent. We want to collect points and the results,” Sekgota explains.