It might not be Buckingham Palace, but the sprawling mansion where the British royals, Prince Harry and his wife Meghan Markle filmed their Netflix documentary, Harry & Meghan, is nothing short of spectacular and indeed fit for a Duke and Duchess. The luxurious Montecito property in California is set on over two acres of landscaped grounds, with sweeping mountain and ocean views. The stunning home has gone on sale and is listed for R570 million. If ‘living like a Duke’ is what you’re after, the R570 million price tag should be a small price to pay. This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. This is a modal window. This modal can be closed by pressing the Escape key or activating the close button. The beautiful home has been rigged for relaxation and entertaining, boasting an outdoor swimming pool, hot tub and bar. A trio of arched French doors open the spacious formal living room to a colonnade that runs the full width of the house with the glamorous dining room sporting a silver-leaf ceiling. The library features polished wood panelling, a baronial fireplace, and a secret door to the main-floor primary suite. Less formal areas within the two-story home include a huge chef-quality kitchen that’s open to a cozy family room, a plush screening room with fireplace and wet bar, games rooms (one for kids, another for grownups), a small meditation lounge, and a gym. ALSO SEE: Prince Harry’s Spare breaks record: Fastest selling non fiction of all time With six bedrooms, six full and two half bedrooms entertaining guests or family for a weekend will be a dream. You won’t even know there are guests in the house. Outside, pebbled walkways and stone walls wind through lush and carefully maintained landscaping dotted with several sculptures by pop artist Robert Indiana. Elsewhere on the property are stands of banana trees, raised organic vegetable beds, and numerous citrus trees. There’s even a chicken coop for fresh eggs and beehives for honey. *Compiled by Xanet Scheepers