Dar es Salaam. The Mapinduzi Cup group stage concludes today with two crucial matches on the schedule at Zanzibar’s Amaani Stadium. The first match will be between Namungo FC and Aigle Noir at 4.15pm, but all eyes and ears will be on the group D clash between Young Africans (Yanga) and Singida Big Stars at 8.15pm. The game is expected to be challenging because each side will be aiming for victory in order to advance to the semifinals. Singida Big Stars’ goal is not only to exact revenge on Yanga, but also to make history by winning the title for the first time. So far, Singida Big Stars lead the standings with three points and two goals scored, while Yanga are second with three points and one goal scored. KMKM were eliminated from the competition after losing 2-0 and 1-0 to Singida Big Stars and Yanga, respectively. Yanga’s assistant coach Cedric Kaze feels his team would face an uphill battle against Singida Big Stars, despite the fact that it is made up of a mix of players. According to him, he has included youthful players in the team squad in order to assess their abilities besides winning the competition. “Our task is to get a positive result. We are well aware that we would be facing one of the strongest teams in the league,” he said. “Our young players will have a chance to be part of the team that will play Singida Big Stars tomorrow (today). They really need exposure and experience.” Kaze remarked. For his part, Singida Big Stars head coach Hans van der Pluijm said the match will be difficult, but his players are happy about the task,” the Dutchman  said. Another exciting match will be between Namungo FC and Aigle Noir, who will all need to win in order to qualify for the competition’s semifinals, which will be held on Sunday and Monday at the same stadium. The two clubs have one point each, but Aigle Noir have a goal advantage and hence needs at least a 1-1 draw to go to the knockout stage. The Burundi’s outfit recorded a 1-1 draw with group leaders Chipukizi, while Namungo FC recorded a barren draw with Zanzibar. Aigle Noir head coach Bessora Albert Samson said his players understand the significance of the game and that they will not let their fans down. “It is going to be tight match as each team eye knockout stage. Apart from competing for the first time, my players want to make new history in the competition,” Samson remarked. Despite facing stiff opponents, Namungo FC’s interim head coach Dennis Kitambi stated that his team is prepared for the match. “My players are upbeat and optimistic about winning and making it to the final four,” Kitambi said.