Eskom says it will ramp up load shedding to stage 6 on Tuesday night until Wednesday morning. Stage 6 nightly load shedding will then be implemented from 4pm to 5am until further notice, while stage 4 load shedding will be implemented from 5am to 4pm daily until further notice. According to the power utility, seven units tripped on Tuesday, of which three have returned to service.  Also, the return to service of three other units has been delayed. Unit 1 of Matla Power Station will be shut down tonight to repair a boiler tube leak. Eskom said it will communicate a further update as soon as there are any significant changes. ALSO READ: Stage 3 load shedding back on Wednesday, until further notice African National Congress (ANC) President Cyril Ramaphosa has vowed to end the rolling blackouts. Ramaphosa made the comments during his January 8th address at the Dr Petrus Molemela Stadium in Mangaung. As South Africans become angrier and more frustrated over the power cuts, Ramaphosa vowed to ensure additional megawatts will be added to the strained electricity grid. “We must return Eskom’s generation capacity to optimum performance. This responsibility will be given to capable and qualified individuals. We must also tackle sabotage at ANC. We will also lead a campaign against illegal connections.” “We need to pursue with greater focus and purpose the measures we have already announced and agreed to reduce the frequency and the severity of load-shedding and ultimately to end it.” He conceded that load shedding was harming the country’s economic growth, something South African businesses and economists have been saying for months. South Africa has so far experienced more than 226 days of load shedding with January 2022 the only month without any blackouts as failing state-owned entity Eskom battles to keep the lights on. READ MORE: Ramaphosa: ANC’s top priority is to end load shedding The latest development has again angered South Africans, who have taken to social media to share their frustrations. Stage 6 dominated the Twitter trends list following Eskom’s announcement on Tuesday evening.  –Additional reporting by Faizel Patel