It has finally arrived – the day we’ve all been waiting for. Today sees the running of the Grade 1 World Sports Betting Cape Town Met over 2,000m at Hollywoodbets Kenilworth. This beautiful race is backed up by the Grade 1 Schweppes Majorca Stakes for fillies and mares over 1,600m as well as the Grade 1 Pongracz Cape Flying Championship over 1,000m. We also have the inaugural running of the R7,500,000 World Sports Betting Gold Rush over 1,600m, which to my knowledge is the richest race we have on offer in South Africa. The added bonus for punters is that this is a Hong Kong World Pool meeting and there will be huge TAB pools on offer for Win, Place, Exacta, Swinger and Quinella bets. These pools operate from Race 4 to Race 12 so people can bet into multimillion-rand pools. I have five rides and I am fortunate to be riding in two of the three big ones, and once you have a ticket, you always have a chance. So, I will be hoping for the best. ALSO READ: Surfs up! Snaith beach bums set to make a splash at the Met Last week was a good week for me and I managed to bag the feature race winner (Grade 3 Sea Cottage Stakes) on Billy Bowlegs. He is definitely getting stronger with every run and I really feel he could be a Derby horse. Well done to all the winning connections and thank you for the opportunity. On Sunday we race at Turffontein and my best ride is Lady Regent in Race 4. She won a good race last time and could definitely follow up. My ride in the feature race, Perfect Witness, could represent some decent value because she is drawn well, has good form and comes in with a handy weight, so she must be included into all bets. Back to the Cape.  Race 1 is a Maiden Plate for fillies and mares over 1,200m and on form Apple Catcher should take all the beating. He ran a superb race on debut and holds a number of these opposing him again and with natural improvement, he will be the horse to beat. Head Girl looks to be the main danger and looks the stable elect with Grant van Niekerk taking the ride over Jazz Diva, but both must be respected. Race 2 is a Maiden Special Weights Race over 1,200m and I ride Cybotix who will have to improve to feature so I’m more hopeful than anything. I think Green Falcon sets the standard on form. He comes in well weighted and is overdue a win.Filly On Board rates a danger after three good runs and she could potentially still improve further.  Carriacou gave me a good feel when I rode him a while back and he returns from gelding so he has to be respected. Aspect and Sir William are others to consider for larger bets. Race 3 is a MR 100 Handicap for fillies and mares over 1,400m and my value bet comes up in the form of Miss Marguerite who is a filly that is well above average and this looks the perfect opportunity to get another win under her belt. This is a huge drop in class and she comes in with bottom weight off a good draw and all this could play into her hands and a big run is expected. Who Do You Love looks to be the main danger because she also drops in class. Bonika has some good form to her name and she is a definite runner. Going Up conceded weight all round but is classy and can be included into wider bets. Live My Life is in good form and tried the trip for the first time so she could improve further. ALSO READ: Make It Snappy makes a snappy headline but millions are won elsewhere Race 4 is the Grade 1 Majorca Stakes over 1,600m and we see superstar mare Captain’s Ransom looking to defend her crown. She ran a superb race in defeat last time out and once again sets the standard. She has beaten these fillies and I’ll be disappointed if she doesn’t win. She is a banker in all bets. Desert Miracle steps up in trip again and the tongue tie gets removed which could make a difference. She is a classy filly who has to be respected as the main danger but she’ll have to put up a career-best effort to beat my selection. Silver Darling ran well last time out and another honest run is expected. Chansonette has disappointed in her last two starts but if she returns to best she can definitely run into the money. Race 5 is a MR 74 Handicap over 1,400m and I think Nevada King will take all the beating. After winning his maiden he has put up two outstanding performances and a repeat of those will see him just about it win. His stable companions Future Turn, Gimme More Time and Tothemoonandback look to be his main dangers and all have winning claims, which gives Justin Snaith a very strong hand in this race. Bardolino and Winter Air are others to consider. Race 6 is the Listed Summer Juvenile Stakes over 1,100m and I ride Lily Of The Nile who ran a nice race on debut but will have to improve even more to feature. The Abdicator really impressed me with the way he won on debut and he is the horse they all have to beat. He looked well above average, the outcome was never in doubt and he could improve further, which would make it hard to beat him. Bohemian Grove ran a lovely race on debut and on that showing will definitely improve so must be respected as a main danger. Golden Sickle, First Origin and Dumbledore all won very good races on debut and they could be anything so they must be respected again. I think these horses should get you through all bets. Race 7 is the WSB Gold Rush over 1,600m and this is a wide-open contest so try and go as wide as the budget allows. I think Time For Orchids has the best form on offer and sets the standard. She is drawn wide which is a concern but she could still have the class to overcome it. Dave The King drops in class and rates the main danger. He has been slightly disappointing but is clearly well above average and there are signs he is coming back to best. Royal Aussie must be included into all bets while King Regent gave me a lovely feel when I won on him, and it wouldn’t surprise me if he comes out and wins a race of this nature. Winter Greeting and Seeking The One could be others to consider for wider bets. Race 8 is the Grade 1 Cape Flying Championship over 1,000m and I ride top sprinter Alesian Chief. He already has a Grade 1 to his name and I was extremely happy with his comeback run last time. I think he is a definite runner and I’ll be hoping to be right there at the finish. I think we all have Princess Calla to beat. She is having her third run after a rest and she defends an unbeaten record up the straight. She will be cherry ripe and rates a massive runner. Gimme A Prince looks a high-class horse and he could potentially be better than his rating. He could also still improve because he is relatively unexposed and looks a massive danger to all. Isivunguvungu ran well after a rest last time out and was slightly unlucky not to win but he is another classy horse who should be included into all bets. ALSO READ: Profile – Greg Bortz deserves to win the Met Race 9 is the Grade 1 WSB Cape Town Met over 2,000m and I ride Nexus who ran well last time out and with some luck in running, I’ll be hoping to run on into the money. I personally think we all have the three-year-old Cousin Casey to beat. I really like his prep going into the race and he will be having his third run after a rest. He will enjoy the step up in trip and I think he has the class to win. Jet Dark is the obvious danger. He ran very well last time out and I still think he’ll enjoy the step up in trip. He has a good draw and should get a lovely run from there. Kommetdieding should be cherry ripe for this race and he will love the 2,000m again. He is defending his crown and he has to be included into all bets. Three-year-old filly Make It Snappy is superb and has already won two Grade 1s so she has to be respected but I don’t think she’ll get an easy lead and I believe this will be a lot harder for her against these hard-knocking older horses. Sparkling Water and Al Muthana are others to be considered. Race 10 is the Western Cape Stayers over 2,800m and I ride Dubai Lights who is in fair form and could potentially enjoy the step up in trip. I think he could represent some value with Swingers and exotics but I think Nebraas is the right one. He is a top-class stayer who has been competitive over shorter and now that he steps back up in trip will be hard to beat. He is my best bet on the card. Crome Yellow beat a number of these last time out and is better off at the weights with some as well so he rates a danger. Arctic Drift was slightly unlucky last time out and could enjoy the longer trip. Senso Unico has always promised to be a decent stayer and he gave a good account of himself last time out and another decent run is expected. Race 11 is the Invitational over 1,200m. This is tricky so go as wide as the budget allows. I think the three-year-olds are the key and my first selection is Kitchakal who drops in trip but also in class and that could be enough to see him win this race. Dance Variety will come into the race cherry ripe and is in good form so he rates the main danger. Impressive maiden winner USA’s Hope clearly has loads of ability on the evidence of that last win and he could easily follow up so must he included into all bets. Michael Faraday has some good form and has been gelded so that could definitely result in improvement. He will be competitive if fully wound up. Of the older horses I think Veldskoen is the one to keep an eye on because he is still unexposed after only two runs only and could very well be better than rated. Race 12 is a MR 74 Handicap for fillies and mares over 1,200m and it’s another tough race but the value might lie with Double Dream who drops back in trip and that could definitely suit her. I think the main danger could come from Copper View who is having her third run after a rest and the trip will suit her better. Flying First and Mulberry Street clearly have ability and have to be included and respected into all bets while Strawberry Light and Fearless Trip can be included into wider bets. Race 10 No 6 Nebraas Race 3 No 1 Miss Marguerite R3072Leg 1: 3Leg 2: 1, 13, 14Leg 3: 2, 5Leg 4: 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16Leg 5: 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16Leg 6: 4, 14