Why did you decide to visit Tanzania? Linda: We were looking for something different. We had been to Alaska two years before—beautiful scenery, a wonderful place. We had also lived in Europe when my husband was in the army in the 1960s. However, we had never been to Africa and knew very little about it. So the idea of visiting appealed to us at the time. Randell: It was a special trip for us because it was our 40th wedding anniversary. We wanted to do a special trip; we did not want to visit cities. We wanted to see wildlife. Most of the tours we read about started in Cape Town or Johannesburg. We weren’t interested in those. We wanted to see wildlife in its natural habitat so we decided to visit the Serengeti and the Maasai Mara.  Considering the distance between the US and Tanzania, what gave you the courage to take the long trip? Traveling far isn’t a problem; we had been to Japan back in the 80s, which is even further, and we’ve been to Europe. So coming to Africa wasn’t a problem at all.  What are some of the things you often hear about Tanzania that you found to be different when you visited? The main thing we heard a lot about was the poaching of animals. So we expected to see a very small animal population. But that wasn’t the case at all. We were pleasantly surprised to see so many animals.  What are some of your most treasured memories from your trip to Tanzania? It happened 20 years ago. We thought we wouldn’t have cell service when we came to Tanzania. But our guides were talking on their phones. It seems like they had better cell service in Tanzania than we did back at home. Another amazing thing were some of the luxury lodges in the middle of nowhere. Linda on safari in Tanzania. PHOTO | COURTESY Did your 40th wedding anniversary trip to Tanzania live up to your expectations? We got more than we expected. It was a fantastic experience.  Tell us about your food experience in Tanzania. It was a long time ago. However, when we were in tents, we had a chef who cooked on an open fire. He cooked some of the best meals we’ve ever tasted anywhere. Unfortunately, we can’t remember whether it was British, German, or Tanzanian cuisine because it was such a long time ago. He was a very experienced chef who had worked with tourists and on planes for more than 20 years. He was the best chef we’d ever run into. Every morning we’d have breakfast served on a terrace. It was a very luxurious treatment; we didn’t feel like we were in the wilderness.  How was it; seeing a lion in person rather than on television? It felt quite different. It was a great experience seeing them in their natural habitat. Randell and Linda watch lions on safari. PHOTO | COURTESY Did the tour guides share any interesting animal traits with you? I remember them telling us about elephant behavior. They said that if an elephant flaps its ears in a certain way, then they are not happy with us. I remember one big elephant, and you could tell that he was not pleased. But we never felt unsafe. I remember waking up one morning and seeing a bull elephant walk right past my tent, I just took a photo. On the background was Mt Kilimanjaro, it was such a great photo opportunity. During the sight-seeing, most of the time we were in a safari vehicle. You’d never want to sit down because there was always something to see. To see a whole community of baboons crossing the road, with the mother taking care of the young, was truly amazing. However, we were told to always have guards around when we went near the baboon area because they knew how to unzip tents and could steal all the food. We also visited the village of the warriors who guarded us. We found they had a lot of souvenirs from different people who’d visited them before us. We learned that some of the guards had actually gone to college. They were highly educated. They could answer all our questions about different birds, animals, and the history of the country.  Would you recommend Tanzania to your friends and neighbors? In a heartbeat. It was one of the best trips we’ve ever made. We got to experience both Tanzania and Kenya. The combined experience was really good.  What do you think is the best way for Tanzania to promote its tourism? I think promoting nature is the best way.