I will hasten to apologise to those who feel I’m being repetitive, pointing out language goofs that have numerously been exposed before. Damn the teacher in me that dictates: tell it to them, again and again…until everybody does it right! Now there’s a Page 12-13 story that appears in the tabloid (Friday 12 January), that’s closely associated with columnist, entitled, ‘Vido Vidox & his magic charm behind the mic’. Telling readers about the subject of her story, the scribbler writes: “In his early days, he was assigned to monitor and profile UPCOMING musicians from the studio…” Hello, for the zillionth time let me say this: when you’re talking about a person who’s showing signs he’s on his way up, this one is an UP-AND-COMING. Upcoming is something else—it means “forthcoming.” In another paragraph, our scribbling colleague quotes her subject as saying: “Through my work, I have expanded my network to include people in different industries within inside and outside OF the country…” Hang on…outside ‘of’ the country? Nope, simply say: outside THE country. Come Saturday, January 14, and Bongo’s huge and colourful broadsheet ran, on Page 3, a story entitled, ‘Morogoro carrying out evaluation of impact of Kidonda flash floods’. In Para 4, the scribbler reports on what the DC said thus: “He said the ongoing evaluation EXERCISE will help them to know the number of damaged PROPERTIES and HOUSES that have been damaged by the rain water.” The word “exercise” as used above is most unnecessary. Then, our colleague has talked about “properties” and “houses” as if the latter aren’t properties. How misleading! Here’s a rewrite: “The ongoing EVALUATION will help them to know the number of damaged PROPERTIES that have been damaged by the FLOODS.” Page 1 of the same broadsheet has this story: ‘Government worried over rise in patients’ referral refusals’. In Para 2, the scribbler, in reference to what a deputy minister said, writes: “In pointed remarks during a visit to inspect progress in wide ranging renovations…he castigated HABITS of refusing transfers of patients…” “Habits” of refusing transfers...? Nope. Just say “THE HABIT (singular) of refusing transfers... You may, if you like, talk of “CASES of the habit of…” Still on Saturday, January 14, on which day Bongo’s senior-most broadsheet has a story on Page 2 with the headline, ‘TCRA for quality communication sector’. Therein, the scribbler purports to quote a senior official as telling TCRA’s employees: “’I understand we are intimately familiar with all our (sic!) customers that we serve. This ROUND let’s achieve more MILES and make the sector even better,’ he INSISTED…” I’m certain the boss delivered his speech in Kiswahili, so our critique is directed to our colleague who translated it into King Charles’ mother tongue. We’ll attempt a rewrite: “I understand we’re intimately familiar with THE customers we serve. This TIME AROUND, let’s achieve more MILESTONES and make the sector even better,’ he SAID (not insisted). By the way, if I had the mandate, I would ban the use of the verb “insist” in our newsrooms. More often than not, it’s carelessly used, when one feels it’s high time one avoided the simple and most effective word—SAID! On Page, there’s a photograph whose caption reads:  “Zanzibar President, Dr Hussein Mwinyi, cuts the ribbon to launch Masjid Istiqama before A Friday PRAYER at Mkwajuni…” A Friday prayer? Oh, no! We say: Friday PRAYERS. Finally, a gem from Page 4, thanks to a story entitled, ‘BMH to conduct urinary tract stones screening’, in which our colleague writes in Para 3: “…Prof Mesut Remzi and Prof Christian Seitz will jet IN Dodoma to mentor, teach and give HANDS on Endourology operations...” Hello! The two professors will not “jet in Dodoma”; they will jet INTO Dodoma. And, they’ll not give “hands” on endourology, instead, they will give A HAND on endourology. Ah, this treacherous language called English!