Here’s your morning news update: An easy-to-read selection of our top stories. Stay up to date with The Citizen – More News, Your Way Democratic Alliance (DA) leader, John Steenhuisen, said the party is organising a ‘major march’ to protest against load shedding and tariff increases. The country is currently buckling under the impact of stage 6 load shedding, and to add insult to injury, Eskom will be allowed an electricity tariff of 18.65%. On Saturday, Steenhuisen confirmed that his party is “organising a major protest march to the ANC headquarters at Luthuli House in Johannesburg on 25 January”. READ: ‘Stage 6 takes your power, take the ANC’s power’ – DA protest confirmed Chief Justice Raymond Zondo says South Africa ‘will forever be grateful’ to former speaker of the country’s first democratic Parliament, Dr Frene Ginwala. Ginwala died on Thursday night at the age of 90, following a stroke two weeks ago. Zondo stated that Ginwala, as Parliament speaker, headed up one of the three arms of the state, namely, Parliament. “The Chief Justice sends his heartfelt condolences to the family and loved ones of the former speaker. NOW READ: Zondo remembers Frene Ginwala: ‘She helped produce our constitution’ Following days of scorching hot weather conditions over several parts of the country, residents in Gauteng can breathe a sigh of relief – thunderstorms are predicted. This improvement in the daytime temperatures is expected as of Wednesday and Thursday due to a possibility of thundershowers, albeit it’s a dicey situation for now, according to forecaster at the SA Weather Service (Saws) Puseletso Mofokeng. READ: Weather update: When to expect daily thunderstorms in Gauteng The majority of people who died on Gauteng’s roads since 1 December 2022 were pedestrians, according to the Gauteng Traffic Police Department (GTPD). GTPD spokesperson Obed Sibasa, out of the 269 fatalities recorded between December 1 2022 and January 13 2023, more than half the number which is 144 is pedestrians. “This number might increase when the minister of Transport Fikile Mbalula pronounces the road crashes and fatalities for the festive season on Monday. “Gauteng road safety promotions warned pedestrians to refrain from unacceptable behaviour which include not to walk on and cross freeways but the tendency by pedestrians of trying to misjudge the speed of vehicles continued,” said Sibasa. READ: Fatal road crash stats: Pedestrians continue to die on Gauteng roads While it is important to keep a constant eye on cashflow in your small business, it is equally important to invest in its long-term financial health to build a financial buffer, save for Capex projects or even just have the peace of mind that you set funds aside for a rainy day. In 2022, individuals and businesses had to navigate rising inflation and interest rates along with the unexpected costs of staying in business through various stages of load shedding.  While responding to short-term pressures, many small business owners may have lost sight of the long game made possible by saving money in a long-term account. READ: How to build a financial buffer for your small business Will Jacks clearly wanted to make up for missing out on runs in the Pretoria Capitals’ first match, as the 24-year-old Englishman powered them to a comprehensive 37-run victory over Sunrisers Eastern Cape in their SA20 match at Centurion on Saturday. Opener Jacks scored just six against the same team two days ago at St George’s Park, but on Saturday he was raining sixes on a capacity crowd as he plundered a wonderfully-entertaining 92 off just 46 balls, the foundation of the Pretoria Capitals’ mighty total of 216/6 after they had been sent in to bat. READ: SA20: Jacks wanted to make up & powered Pretoria Capitals to victory