Rivaldo Coetzee’s transition from central defence to the centre of midfield was one of the most successful positional switches in the country over the past few years. ALSO READ: Mokwena still wants more as Sundowns smash top flight recordAnd now, Mamelodi Sundowns head coach Rulani Mokwena is looking to do the same with a couple of players in his team.Mothobi Mvala, for one has been playing at the heart of Sundowns’ defence for most of the season.Mokwena has revealed that Mvala, who usually plays as a central midfielder and was often used as a second striker at his former club Highlands Park, is most likely to continue in that role when the defending champions face TS Galaxy in Mbombela on Tuesday evening.“How good has he been? He has been colossal for us in the transition that he has made from midfield to defence at Sundowns. For him to keep Grant Kekana out of the team must tell you something because Grant has been magnificent,” said Mokwena.Mvala is not the only one as Mokwena also has a different opinion on Sipho Mbule. The ex-SuperSport United star is a typical No.10 with his skill and marvelous touch of the ball. However, his coaches think he will excel if deployed in a different role.“Sipho Mbule is a No.6, especially in how we want to construct things. He has the press resistance and this aura about him, he is an incredible footballer,”said Mokwena.“Riva has played in that position and we have been very good. Andile Jali has played there and we were magnificent because these are top class players. But we often don’t mention Sipho Mbule. People think I am crazy just like they thought we were crazy at Pirates when we played Musa Nyatama as a No.6.”ALSO READ: Chiefs coach expects more from Sithebe after Sundowns impactMeanwhile, the Sundowns mentor was beaming with confidence after his side registered 12 DStv Premiership wins on the spin, setting a new league record. However, he says critics will always try to blemish his record.“I know that my record at Pirates will be the first thing that people talk about before talking about my record as the head coach of Sundowns. But it does not bother me because what is so ironic is the amount of appreciation and respect from coaches from Europe,” said Mokwena. What Mbule needs to succeed  Since joining Masandawana, Mbule has played 14 games in all competitions — an involvement that can improve if Mokwena’s solution works. “I want to get Sipho a book titled Gifted, Hunted and Haunted by Hosea Ramphekwa because it speaks to people like Sipho,” said Mokwena. ALSO READ: Erasmus hails Pirates teammates after Stellenbosch win “You have to keep the leash string but that is just how talented human beings are. You can go to your Whitney Houston, Michael Jackson and it is because when you are talented you have so many knives meant to stab you. Some of them are people who are close to you.  “Sipho needs all the love and support that he can get because it is not only our responsibility that the best players in our country are playing football so that they can help the national team,” concluded Mokwena.