In this week’s royal update, we take a look at King Charles III’s coronation, Prince Harry’s former military instructor is shocked by Spare claims and a former royal butler opens up about Harry and Camilla Parker Bowles’ relationship.  The coronation of King Charles III will take place over three days, following a long tradition dating back more than 900 years. There have been reports that this historical moment may also be the centre stage for Charles to reconcile with his son Prince Harry after his controversial claims against his family in his memoir Spare.  Buckingham Palace has described King Charles’ III coronation, which will take place from 6-8 May, as an appreciation of the past while looking towards the future, ITN reported.  Britain is expected to come to a standstill as the last coronation occurred in 1953, of his late mother Queen Elizabeth II which lasted three hours.  The United Kingdom is suffering from a few political and socio-economic issues such as inflation, as the cost of living is considered a crisis in the kingdom. Because of this, the monarchy may scale down the celebrations, as Charles’ coronation is expected to last an hour.  This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. This is a modal window. This modal can be closed by pressing the Escape key or activating the close button. The coronation service will take place on 6 May at London’s Westminster Abbey in the morning. The King and Queen Consort Camilla Parker Bowles will lead a procession, and a religious service will follow before the royal family returns to Buckingham Palace.  It’s unclear if Prince Andrew, who was stripped of his royal duties, Prince Harry and Meghan Markle have been invited.  A special concert is expected to be hosted on 7 May. The lineup hasn’t been revealed as yet, however, the palace says it will include “global music icons and contemporary stars”. Members of the public have been called to participate in the coronation lunch which entails street parties across the nation.  ALSO READ: Royal news: Harry predicts one of Prince William’s kids will end up like him Monday will be declared a public holiday. At 74, Charles is the oldest monarch to descend to the throne.  Whilst the world’s attention on Prince Harry’s Spare has died down over the last two weeks, some of the people he mentioned in his memoireare responding to his claims.  The Duke reportedly wrote that former Sergeant Major Michael Booley “deliberately stalled their Slingsby T67 firefly propeller plane without warning.” Booley said he is shocked by Harry’s claim, Bang Showbiz reported. “I am staggered by this. In shock even,” he said.  Harry writes that he perceived Booley’s actions as an “aborted suicide attempt” as the left part of the plane’s wing dipped and seconds later “he recovered the aircraft and levelled the wings”. This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. This is a modal window. This modal can be closed by pressing the Escape key or activating the close button. Harry claims Booley said his actions were part of the training. Booley admits that Harry does compliment him in the book, however, his recollections of certain events and lessons were “inaccurate”. He says every trainee is well-informed beforehand and criticised Harry’s dramatisation of flying sorties.  Former royal butler Grant Harrold, who worked as a butler to King Charles when he was the Prince of Wales for seven years, has shared his side of Camilla and Harry’s relationship.  “The Duke has painted Camilla as a woman who works with the press to plot stories against himself and his wife to make herself look favourable.”  Harrold says he remembers a different side of the royal family, CheatSheetreported. He claimed Camilla ‘always tried to make things right’, and was often found ‘giggling’ with her stepson. Harrold rubbished the claims Harry made that he and William asked his father not to marry Camilla.  READ NOW: Ghislaine Maxwell claims Prince Andrew’s photo with abuse accuser is ‘doctored’ “I was there for [Charles and Camilla’s] wedding, the engagement. I promise you from my point of view and as I say, I wasn’t there every single second so I can’t guarantee what conversations took place but when I was around they all got on. [Harry and William] supported their father, they were very excited about it and they were there at the actual wedding as well.”  Harrold added that he is upset at the state of the family’s relationship and felt “sorry for all of them”.