The raw pace and heavy balls of Anrich Nortje and Jimmy Neesham caused an industrial-sized collapse by the Joburg Super Kings as the Pretoria Capitals breezed to a six-wicket win with seven overs to spare in their SA20 match at SuperSport Park on Wednesday night. Nortje was close to his sharpest as he kept the batsmen on the hop, as well as giving them no freebies, taking 3/12 in four outstanding overs, equalling Kagiso Rabada’s mark for the most economical four-over figures in the SA20, while Neesham turned the tide for Pretoria with incredible figures of 3/7 in three overs. The New Zealander also took a magnificent catch at backward point, diving full length, one-handed, to dismiss Alzarri Joseph off Nortje. Having been sent in to bat, Joburg Super Kings lost Reeza Hendricks to the first ball of the match, caught behind off a beauty first up from Eathan Bosch. But captain Faf du Plessis ensured they made a flying start as he slammed a tremendous 51 off 22 balls, taking the visitors to 70/2 in the powerplay. He hit opposite number Wayne Parnell’s first four deliveries for four successive fours. Read more: JSK – owners of the coolest heads – triumph over Pretoria Capitals But Neesham had Du Plessis caught behind with his first delivery, and the Super Kings lost their last eight wickets for 52 runs in 9.4 overs to be all out for a poor 122. They only got into three figures thanks to Aaron Phangiso’s 19 not out off 10 balls coming in at No.10. Pretoria Capitals coach Graham Ford would definitely have wanted a bonus point out of the game after all the hard work done in the field, and opener Will Jacks once again stepped up at the start of the innings, blasting 34 off 16 balls to lay the ideal platform. Read more: Pretoria prove powerplay premise with dominant win over SEC Fellow opener Phil Salt then took over and steered the Capitals to their target in 13 overs as he compiled a fine 52 not out off 30 balls, the second unbeaten half-century in four innings for the Englishman who has really announced himself to South African fans. Shane Dadswell scored 18 as he and Salt added 51 for the fourth wicket. The two teams clashed on Tuesday night at the Wanderers where JSK edged the Capitals in a thrilling first home game for the Joburg side.