The South African Weather Service (SAWS) has issued a level 2 warning of for disruptive rain leading to localised flooding of susceptible settlements, roads, low lying areas and bridges is over the eastern interior of the Eastern Cape, including the Wild coast. The weather service has also forecasted severe thunderstorms with heavy downpours, strong damaging wind and hail leading to localised flooding over the interior of KwaZulu-Natal. Kwazulu Natal Tomorrow 's Weather overview: 4.1.2023 pic.twitter.com/fkD61rI8b9— SA Weather Service (@SAWeatherServic) January 3, 2023 Gauteng: Fine becoming partly cloudy and warm with isolated showers and thundershowers. The expected UVB sunburn index: High. Mpumalanga: Hot in the Lowveld, otherwise partly cloudy and warm with isolated to scattered showers and thundershowers, except in the Bushbuckridge area. Limpopo: Partly cloudy and warm to hot with isolated showers and thundershowers in the west and south. It will be very hot in the Lowveld and the Limpopo Valley. North West: Partly cloudy and warm, with scattered showers and thundershowers, but isolated in the extreme east. Free State: Partly cloudy and warm, with scattered showers and thundershowers, but isolated in the east. Northern Cape: Partly cloudy and warm to hot, with isolated to scattered showers and thundershowers in the east. The wind along the coast will be light to moderate north-westerly to westerly. Western Cape: Cloudy to partly cloudy and cool to warm with a chance of rain along the south-western parts and with isolated to scattered showers over the south coast and adjacent and eastern interior. The wind along the coast will be moderate to fresh westerly to south-westerly, becoming strong southerly north of Cape Agulhas by the afternoon. The expected UVB sunburn index: Very High. Western half of the Eastern Cape: Morning mist in the south at first, otherwise partly cloudy and cool to warm, becoming cloudy with scattered showers and rain and with thundershowers in the north. The wind along the coast will be Moderate to fresh south-westerly. Eastern half of the Eastern Cape: Partly cloudy and warm, becoming cloudy with widespread showers and thundershowers, but scattered in the north and southwest. The wind along the coast will be Moderate to fresh south-westerly. KwaZulu-Natal: Fine and warm, but hot in the north. It will become cloudy in the afternoon with scattered showers and thundershowers, but widespread in the south-western interior. The wind along the coast will be Moderate to fresh north-easterly, becoming moderate to fresh south-westerly from the south in the morning, spreading to Richards Bay towards evening. The expected UVB sunburn index: High. ALSO READ: Level 2 warning: Heavy rain, hail and strong winds expected in parts of KZN and Limpopo