Brandon Truter has hinted that new signing Kamohelo Mokotjo might make his debut for Sekhukhune United in their next DStv Premiership game against Mamelodi Sundowns at Loftus Versfeld on Saturday. ALSO READ: Pirates coach not happy despite ‘beautiful’ win over Stellies Mokotjo was unveiled as a new Sekhukhune signing last week, with the former Bafana Bafana midfielder making his way to the Limpopo based following a number of years spent playing abroad. Truter admits that Mokotjo is not yet at his best, but, says he could be able to make the squad for the Sundowns clash. “Kamo comes from a long lay-off, but he is in condition though, but he is lacking match fitness. We will try to get him up to the standard. Hopefully he will get some minutes in training matches this week and hopefully he will get some minutes against Sundowns,” said the Sekhukhune mentor. “The experience, calmness, the composure is still there and he is a good passer of the ball as well.” Mokotjo has joined Babina Noko with the club on a very good path following a number of positive results since Truter took over the reins from Kaitano Tembo last year in November. The club has been sailing smoothly along in the league and have won four games in a row. Their winning run saw them beat the likes of Kaizer Chiefs and Marumo Gallants in the Limpopo derby. Sekhukhune are in fifth place on the league standings with 24 points after 17 games, a good return after their poor start this season. Coming up against Sundowns will be a great test for how good Truter’s charges are, especially with the Pretoria outfit on a run of 13 wins in a row. Having Mokotjo in his squad should be a boost for Truter, who is still waiting on his skipper Linda Mntambo to get back to full fitness after recovering from an injury-the new signing’s experience should be vital for his team. But, Mokotjo has not played in the PSL for over a decade, and should he get a chance to play, it will be interesting to see if he will be able to adjust.