The City of Cape Town has condemned the attack on a Cape fur seal at Monwabisi Beach on Sunday evening. The seal had to be euthanised by the Cape of Good Hope SPCA after rocks were thrown at it. An anonymous tip-off led to four suspects being arrested. “This is one of the most brutal attacks on our wildlife in recent times. One cannot fathom the pain and stress the seal had to endure while this was happening,” said Eddie Andrews, the City’s deputy mayor and mayoral committee member for spatial planning and environment. “I am shocked and horrified and call on the public to please keep on notifying us when they see animals being attacked, harmed or in distress.” Pictures shared by the SPCA showed the seal with a large gash on its head, as well as blood pouring out of its mouth. The SPCA said one of its eyes has also been crushed and most of its teeth had been completely broken off in its mouth. “Seeing the broken condition this animal was in when it was carried off the beach made my blood run cold. Not in 37 years of working in wildlife welfare have I seen such a case of abject cruelty visited on a defenceless animal that was in all likelihood just minding its own business,” said SPCA wildlife officer Jon Friedman. According to the SPCA, one of the suspects allegedly said a traditional healer had offered them R3 000 to kill the seal. The suspects are facing charges of animal cruelty and of hunting a protected species without a permit. “We will ensure that justice is served in the name of this seal. Torturing any animal is unacceptable and the suspects must face the full might of the law,” said SPCA Chief Inspector Jaco Pieterse. Andrews urged South Africans to be more respectful of wildlife. “Cape Town is fortunate to have a coastline that is beaming with wildlife. We need to respect and treasure these animals,” he said. “Cape Town’s unique location with its pristine coastline and Table Mountain National Park, together with protected areas and nature reserves, requires from all of us to be mindful of our impact on wildlife.” The City of Cape Town urged the public to do the following when encountering wild animals: ALSO READ: WATCH: ‘Get out of the water’ – Baby seal attacks swimmers at Clifton 4th beach This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. This is a modal window. This modal can be closed by pressing the Escape key or activating the close button. The attack on the seal comes a few days after a young seal attacked bathers at the Clifton 4th beach. A video of the incident shows a seal moving off the beach and attacking a boy in the shallow water. It then swam towards a young woman in the water, and bit her six times. The woman was later identified as Raised By Wolves actress Loulou Taylor. NOW READ: Why seals are becoming increasingly violent