The Lions almost threw away a massive lead as they eventually clinched a breathtaking 30-25 (halftime 27-5) win over the Dragons in their Challenge Cup clash at the Centre of Sporting Excellence in Ystrad Mynach, Wales on Sunday afternoon. Flyhalf Jordan Hendrikse proved the difference in the end, as he slotted six penalties and a conversion for a haul of 20 points, which was vital in the Lions surviving the Dragons second half onslaught, having taken a 30-5 lead early in the second half. ALSO READ: No more excuses as Lions go for broke against Dragons in Challenge Cup At the start of the match the Lions got off to a good start as Hendrikse knocked over a second minute penalty, only for the Dragons to hit back in the ninth minute, as they attacked into the Lions 22m, before the ball found its way to flyhalf Will Reed to crash over from close range. The visitors were back in front five minutes later as Hendrikse nailed his second penalty, before a quick double strike saw the them open some daylight on the scoreboard. First some fantastic hands from the Lions players allowed captain Marius Louw to break into the 22m and free his arms to offload to wing Quan Horn to go in at the corner, with Hendrikse slotting the touchline conversion. Straight from the restart Lions prop JP Smith superbly broke down the blind to just before the halfway, where a perfect offload to wing Edwill van der Merwe allowed him to sprint away and score in the corner. Hendrikse then missed his only kick of the night, leaving the score on 18-5 after 18 minutes, but five minutes later was on target again with another penalty. Two more penalties from the on song pivot in the final five minutes of the half gave the Lions an impressive lead at the break. The second half then started with more kicking practice for Hendrikse as he slotted his sixth penalty and seventh successful kick of the night giving the Lions a big 30-5 lead after 44 minutes. The Dragons finally sparked back into action and started their fightback as replacement prop Aki Seiuli picked up and powered over from close range for an unconverted score. The hosts then attacked from a scrum deep in the Lions 22m, with fullback Jordan Williams going over untouched, as Reed added the extras to make it 30-17 after 60 minutes. A yellow card to Lions flank Emile van Heerden in the 64th minute then gave the hosts an extra man, which they utilised well two minutes later as wing Rio Dyer earned enough space to reach over and dot down out wide, Replacement flyhalf JJ Hanrahan however missed the crucial conversion leaving the Lions more than a converted try ahead going into the final 10 minutes. A 78th minute Hanrahan penalty then brought the Dragons within five points, and although the Lions gave the hosts another chance to score with a late penalty, a superb steal under their own posts ended the breathless match. The win secured a home play-off for the Lions in the Challenge Cup last 16, with them set to face a stiff challenge against French giants Racing 92 who have dropped into the competition after being eliminated from the Champions Cup. Scorers Dragons: Tries – Will Reed, Aki Seiuli, Jordan Williams, Rio Dyer; Conversion – Will Reed; Penalty – JJ Hanrahan Lions: Tries – Quan Horn, Edwill van der Merwe; Conversion – Jordan Hendrikse; Penalties – Hendrikse (6)