One of Kaizer Chiefs coach Arthur Zwane’s concerns this season is how his team have missed clear cut chances.  ALSO READ: Hunt’s tip to punters: Don’t bother betting on PSL teams And now the Amakhosi coach is considering taking action to fix that by following the path taken by their Soweto rivals Orlando Pirates.  That is hiring a striker coach who will work closely with the attackers to ensure they have the confidence and skills to convert chances.  Chiefs strikers like Ashley Du Preez and Caleb Bimenyimana have unbelievably missed some chances where it looked easier to score than to miss.  Pirates’ problems up front look to have been rectified since the arrival of Scott Chickelday as a striker coach.  The Buccaneers have scored seven goals in two games since Chickelday’s arrival and the attackers look hungrier.  It is a norm in European teams to have a striker coach and South Africa’s own Benni McCarthy has been hailed for the difference he is making at Manchester United. ALSO READ: Analyst berates Maduka’s coaching style, says he needs to improve Zwane conceded that he could be headed in the same direction with his technical team at Chiefs.  “Going forward, we might look to strengthen that department by getting a striker coach,” said Zwane after last weekend’s 1-0 loss to Mamelodi Sundowns. Chiefs squandered a lot of chances in this game and had they converted some of them, they could have come out with a better result.  “There is a lot going on now in the game of football. The game has evolved and if we cannot get it right as coaches then we might go that route (and get a striker coach).” It is, however, not only Chiefs who have a scoring problem. It is a big problem in South African football.  Only Sundowns have managed to score in almost every game they have played this season.  The top goalscorer charts in the DStv Premiership paints an unpromising picture. Sundowns’ Peter Shalulile has recently taken the lead yet again.  The Namibian is now on eight strikes after scoring in the 2-1 win over TS Galaxy on Tuesday evening. Following hot on his heels are Chiefs’ own Bomenyimana, and SuperSport United’s Bradley Grobler with seven goals each.  Etios Ighodaro of Chippa United, Junior Mendieta of Stellenbosch FC and Cassius Mailula of Sundowns come third with five each.