Divorce can be a traumatic experience for most of the people who choose to take that step, but Black Brain Pictures is looking to show that “every dark cloud has a silver lining” with their brand new Mzansi Magic sitcom titled Lenyalo ha se Papadi. The show, named after a popular Nguni phrase, focuses on how humour can be the catalyst for healing.  Starring Meshack Magabane and Mapaseka Koetle, the 13-episode comedy follows the drama that ensues after Desmond (Magabane) and Mpho (Koetle) decide to end their marriage, and try to navigate a new life of co-parenting, family, finances and attempting to date – all while still living under the same roof! “Over the past few years, the telenovela, drama and reality genres have been a hit with our viewers. One genre we’re excited to also bring to the forefront on our channel slates is comedy. We’re constantly ahead of the curve when it comes to viewer tastes and preferences, and diversifying our line-up is a move we are confident our audience will embrace,” explained Shirley Adonisi, Director of Local Entertainment Channels at M-Net.  The story begins when one of the lead characters, Mpho, 40, believes it’s the perfect time to end her 15-year marriage to Desmond.  “After being a devoted wife and mother to their two children, she has reached breaking point and asks for a divorce from Desmond. “Expecting a smooth process, things take a dramatic – and sometimes funny – turn when Mpho realises she cannot afford to move out of their marital home as the divorce process unfolds… and neither can her husband. Both are trapped while trying to start a new life without each other. Who will crack first? “We’re proud of the contribution we have made to the growth of the South African film and television industry and we have enjoyed going back to the genre that started it all for Black Brain Pictures. We can’t wait for viewers to enjoy some much-needed humour that we will be bringing to the screens with our new productions,” commented Mandla N, Creative Director of Black Brain Pictures.” Black Brain Pictures describes itself as a full-service, 360 production house and they are responsible for shows like DiepCity, Lockdown, The Black Door and Ses’Top La among other projects. “South Africans are known for their great sense of humour and with all the heaviness that is going on in the world, we felt that this would be the right time to return strongly in the new year on a humorous note with our upcoming shows,” added Mpumelelo Nhlapo, Executive Producer of Black Brain Pictures.  In addition to award winners Mavuso Magabane and Pasi Koetle, the cast of Lenyalo ha se Papadiincludes both established names as well as up-and-comers.  Viewers can expect to see the likes of screen legend Clementine Mosimane, Nomzamo ‘Zamo’ Dlamini, Mandla Gauduka, Nicholas Nkuna, Lindokuhle Mbonani, Siphiwe Ngcongwane and Thando Dunjani. Lenyalo ha se Papadi premieres on Monday, 9 January 2023, at 8 pm, on DStv Channel 161.  READ NEXT: Viewers of ‘The Wife’ are tired of the sex scenes