New Kaizer Chiefs signing Christian Saile Basomboli has been described as a utility player who can play on the wing and as a target man.  ALSO READ: How Banyana’s Kgoale is growing the Lipstick-Lady brand and dealing with mental health The 22-year-old Bosomboli signed with Chiefs this week from Nchanga Rangers in Zambia after impressing during a trial with Amakhosi during the World Cup break.  He comes with huge expectations after passing Arthur Zwane’s strict recruitment requirements.  Zambian journalist Aaron Mubanga told SAfm this week of what the Amakhosi supporters can expect of Bosomboli. “He is one of those players who can play anywhere across the frontline,” Mubanga told Thabiso Mosia on Sport On.  "This is one of those transfers that's been smooth. He's been a good servant of Nchanga Rangers. He helped them win promotion last season and was top scorer with 19 goals. In the Super League he has 7 goals- Zambian journalist Aaron Mubanga on Chiefs new signing Christian Saile pic.twitter.com/xLcLHwaa2i— Tracksuit (@ThabisoMosia) January 20, 2023 “But he loves to come from the wing and cut in. He can play on the right wing and cut in to shoot with the left.  “He can even play as a target man but likes being on the wing (more) because of his pace and trickery.” He also revealed that Bosomboli’s transfer went without hitches as Rangers gave him their blessings and wished him well at Chiefs. “He had the blessings of the club. He has been their main man. He has a lot of tricks, is very forceful and has pace and power.  PODCAST of the full interview #SAFMSportOn @SAfmRadio https://t.co/4b99EudlWN— Tracksuit (@ThabisoMosia) January 20, 2023 “He is dynamic but the trick will be adapting in South Africa and fitting into the system. He will need to work on adapting because Chiefs fans will be expecting a lot from him.”  Bosomboli is not the first player to join Chiefs from Zambia with big expectations and amid much fanfare.  Lazarus Kambole is one of those that joined Amakhosi after doing well in the Zambian league recently.  He however failed to make an impression at Chiefs in the three years he spent there until he was released and moved back to Zambia.  Bosomboli is, like Caleb Bimenyimana, also a lanky lad and the two will be expected to form a lethal combination up front for Amakhosi.  He is unlikely to feature for Amakhosi when they meet Mamelodi Sundowns on Saturday evening at FNB Stadium for a crunch DStv Premiership match.  Chiefs also announced the signing of SuperSport United defender Thatayaone Dithlokwe on a pre-contract. According to the contract, Dithlokwe can only join Chiefs in July.  His contract at SuperSport expires at the end of June but Matsatsantsa are expected to release him early to join his new team.