Here’s your morning news update: An easy-to-read selection of our top stories. Stay up to date with The Citizen – More News, Your Way. The world’s eight billion people on Saturday ushered in 2023, bidding farewell to a turbulent 12 months marked by war in Europe, stinging price rises, Lionel Messi’s World Cup glory and the deaths of Queen Elizabeth, Pele and former pope Benedict. Many were ready to set aside pinched budgets and a virus that is increasingly forgotten but not gone, and embrace a party atmosphere on New Year’s Eve after a few pandemic-dampened years. In a brief statement issued on Sunday, the Minister of Employment and Labour, Thulas Nxesi announced that he had called for the suspension of the Thuja Capital Fund Project after it had been brought into question by recent media reports.   “I have since instructed [the] Director General (DG) of the Department of Employment and Labour (DEL) and UIF Commissioner to suspend this project pending [a] full report on all the matters that are raised about it in media reports and related matters,” said the minister in a statement.  The Department of Health has announced that public hospitals in Gauteng delivered a total of 167 babies between midnight and 12pm on 1 January 2023. According to the department, academic hospitals delivered 15 babies and tertiary hospitals delivered a total of 25 babies. ALSO READ: Chris Hani Baragwanath Hospital welcomes 7 New Year’s babies so far “Academic hospitals delivered 15 babies mostly from Chris Hani Baragwanath Academic Hospital with 7 babies, followed by Dr George Mukhari Academic Hospital with 4 deliveries. “Tertiary Hospitals delivered a total of 25 babies with Tembisa Hospital welcoming 20 babies and Kalafong Hospital with 5 deliveries,” said the department in a statement. The South African Police Service’s (SAPS) Safer Festive Season Operations have given the National Police Commissioner plenty of reasons to greet the new year with a smile, after yielding several successes. In a statement on the SAPS website, General Fannie Masemola expressed his satisfaction with the progress made by the operations, which have as their main focus areas preventing and enhancing police actions towards Gender Based Violence and Femicide (GBVF), preventing and combating aggravated armed robberies, enhancing border security, enforcing legislation and bylaws as well as road safety. Gift of the Givers founder Dr. Imtiaz Sooliman has urged South Africans to remain optimistic after a difficult 2022. South Africans rang in 2023 with hope and optimism that the year would be one filled joy, prosperity for the country. Dr. Sooliman described 2022 as a challenging time for the nation. “What a roller-coaster year it has been. The war in Ukraine spiking fuel, cooking oil and wheat prices, 200+ days of load shedding deleteriously affecting water reservoir pumps, hospitals, businesses, and living standards, increased inflation…” Limpopo police arrested and charged a 67-year-old man after a woman attacked by his dogs died in hospital a few days after the attack. The elderly man made his first court appearance and is expected back in the Senwabarwana Magistrate’s Court on Thursday. Two days before Christmas Day, Melitta Sekole, 43, of Senwabarwana village was reportedly walking when she was attacked by two dogs believed to be pit bulls, provincial police spokesperson Colonel Malesela Ledwaba said. “Ingoma Ehlukanisa Unyaka,” popularly known as Ukhozi FM’s Song of the Year feature has become a mainstay in South African pop culture and people seem to look forward to arguing with the choice for top song.  This year was no different as social media blew up with arguments over what song should have taken the top spot.  This year, Ukhozi FM crowned Big Nuz’ Ngeke featuring DJ Yamza Song of the Year. However, most people have flooded social media with the opinion that K.O’s SETE featuring Young Stunna and Blxckie should have been number one and not number six. Other argued that King Monada should have topped the list. NOW READ: Daily news update: Tembisa decuplets probe, Ramaphosa’s new year message and Dr. Imtiaz Sooliman honoured