The uncovering of patent images last year alluding to Ford possibly introducing a Wildtrak version of the new Everest has officially become a reality, albeit only in New Zealand for now. Similar in appearance to the Ranger Wildtrak, the Everest Wildtrak fills the gap between the entry-level Sport and flagship Platinum in the Everest line-up, with its specification being a combination of those offered on its mentioned sibling. As evident by the patent images and indeed the aesthetic applique applied to the Ranger Wildtrak, the Everest Wildtrak receives the same Luxe Yellow paint option, as well as black wheel arch cladding, a black front facia with an integrated satin silver front skidplate below the bumper, grey mirror caps and diamond-cut silver-and-black 20-inch alloy wheels. Inside, Cyber Orange stitch work adorns the dashboard, electronic gear shifter and leather-and-suede trimmed seats, with the front chairs themselves being electrically adjustable while also fitted with heating and ventilated functions. Wildtrak embroidery work on the front headrests rounds the special touches off. ALSO READ: Patent leak suggests Ford could introduce Everest Wildtrak According to reports from Australia, the main confusion surrounds the specification sheet, which shows the Everest Wildtrak receiving the 12.4-inch SYNC 4 infotainment system from the Platinum, but the smaller eight-inch digital instrument cluster from the Sport as opposed to the twelve-inch display also fitted to the Ranger Wildtrak. Also included is the panoramic sunroof and dual-zone climate control with rear vents, but not the Matrix LED headlights from the Platinum as these are replaced by the Sport’s conventional LED setup. Up front, the similarities with Platinum prevails as the Everest Wildtrak is offered solely with the combination of the 3.0-litre Lion turbodiesel V6 engine that produces 184kW/600Nm and the recalibrated General Motors co-developed ten-speed automatic gearbox. As with the Ranger Wildtrak and its twin, the Volkswagen Amarok PanAmericana, a permanent four-wheel-drive features, still with the same modes; 2H, 4H, 4L and 4A, plus six driving settings; Slippery, Eco, Normal, Eco, Tow/Haul, Mud & Ruts and Sand. Going on-sale in New Zealand from July, according to online publication stuff.co.nz, the Everest Wildtrak remains a market specific model, but with reports from Australia already hinting of a possible market availability, don’t be surprised if it does come to South Africa at some stage this year with pricing likely to start at around the R1-million mark. Additional information from carexpert.com and drive.com.au.