‘Gatvol’ citizens have taken to social media to voice their anger over the electricity price hike which will be in effect from April this year. The National Energy Regulator of South Africa (Nersa) announced on Thursday that it had approved an 18.65% increase in electricity tariffs for the next financial year. READ MORE: Massive electricity price hikes on the cards for SA ‘National Shutdown’ trending on Twitter suggests that protest action could take place soon. Although the electricity price increase has angered South Africans, it is not the only matter at hand. Service delivery, load shedding, unemployment, corruption and the ANC’s governance overall are difficulties that South Africans seem to have had enough of. ALSO READ: It’s a long walk to honesty for ANC The African Transformation Movement (ATM) has taken to social media to encourage citizens to “act” against the ruling party. “With the unemployment rate sitting at 63.9% for those aged 15-24, and 42.1% for those aged 25-34 years, the entire workforce of the country is at risk of retrenchment due to load shedding. Take a stand! Make your voice be heard! #NationalShutdown,” the party tweeted. The effects of #Loadshedding on the healthcare system are just as dire! Non-function of hospital elevators severely restrict the movement of patients and staff.There have been reports of complete loss of radiological and pathological services. Take a stand!#NationalShutdown pic.twitter.com/S0GUVzsijI— African Transformation Movement (@ATMovement_SA) January 13, 2023 Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) CIC Julius Malema said the ANC needed to be removed from power and it was time to act. “We are our own liberators; we must remove the ANC from power, but even before that, Ramaphosa must fall with immediate effect and failure to do that, we must push him out of office.” “The picket lines are calling our names. We can’t allow them to turn us into a nation of cowards; everything has collapsed under Ramaphosa, and we look like a helpless nation,” Malema tweeted. We are our own liberators; we must remove the ANC from power, but even before that, Ramaphosa must fall with immediate effect and failure to do that, we must push him out of office.— Julius Sello Malema (@Julius_S_Malema) January 13, 2023 Democratic Alliance leader John Steenhuisen also said that the matter of price hikes should not be ignored. “It’s time to hit the streets SA! We can’t sit back and take hyper inflationary increases! Far too many citizens are barely able to keep their heads above water. This 18% Nersa increase is like a government jackboot pushing more of us under the surface. We’ll announce plans soon.” It’s time to hit the streets SA! We can’t sit back and take hyper inflationary increases!Far too many citizens are barely able to keep their heads above water. This 18% NERSA increase is like a government jackboot pushing more of us under the surface. We’ll announce plans soon. pic.twitter.com/cTDFPy8v03— John Steenhuisen MP (@jsteenhuisen) January 13, 2023 Meanwhile, President Cyril Ramaphosa told South Africans that his “hands are tied” regarding the price hike. NOW READ: ‘My hands are tied’ says Ramaphosa on electricity price hike These were some of the reactions on Twitter: The ANC has become so arrogant that they no longer fear the people. Look at how they treated South Africans during the lockdown, now they telling us we should shut up and accept the NERSA increase. The entire ANC from top to bottom doesn't give a damn about RSA. #NationalShutdown— Ngamla Gouws ???????? (@RenaldoGouws) January 13, 2023 It looks like #NationalShutdown might happen sooner than I thought  and I don't expect only EFF to stand up I expect everyone who's affected by #Loadshedding even celebrities must go to the picket lines. I'm ready I'll wait for the signal.. pic.twitter.com/wTxA1TGWvJ— Battalion 54 (@54Battalion) January 13, 2023 National Shutdown ifuna engathi ingaba this coming Monday while everyone is still angry, not on 14 February when everyone will be buying roses and planning dinner dates #NationalShutdown— XOLI ????☺️ (@Undlunkulu_Xoli) January 13, 2023 MASIYE! Food is extremely expensive, no jobs, loadshedding at it peak, crime, EVERYTHING is falling apart! We need to save us. #NationalShutdown— Yaya Mavundla (@YayaRSA) January 13, 2023