ActionSA has called for increased police visibility in areas affected by load shedding in the City of Tshwane, following reports of a spike in hijacking incidents due to the rolling blackouts. In a statement on Monday, ActionSA councillor Nkele Molapo said the party had been made aware of three hijacking incidents that occurred in the City during load shedding, which were alleged to have happened in Mamelodi, Centurion and Pretoria West. Molapo said similar hijacking incidents, shared by residents on social media, had allegedly occurred in recent days in the Akasia areas of Chantelle, Nkwe Estate, Amandasig, Clarina, KarenPark and the Orchards over the festive season. ALSO READ: SA’s power grid, economy can’t be weaned off coal for at least 200 years “According to the reports, it is alleged that the hijackers work as a syndicate where they specifically target areas that experience load shedding. “The syndicate is believed to force the victim to drive to an area where they de-active the car tracking system, and then follows to withdraw funds from the victims’ bank accounts,” said Molapo. She said ActionSA will ask the City of Tshwane to provide feedback to the party on the reported increase in hijacking incidents due to load shedding. The party said it would also put forward recommendations to the City’s council to compel the Tshwane Metro Police Department (TMPD) to deploy resources to the areas affected. “ActionSA will, through our structures, advocate for intensified visible policing in areas that are experiencing load shedding at a particular time, especially at night.” Molapo added that the South African Police Service (SAPS) and TMPD needed to work together and deploy resources to areas that experience load shedding at night. NOW READ: Ditsobotla mayor resigns barely 24 hours after being elected This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. This is a modal window. This modal can be closed by pressing the Escape key or activating the close button.