When we last left the cast of The Wife, Hlomu was calling for an end to the diamond heist business, Naledi had left Qhawe for good and announced her decision to fulfill her royal duties while Xoli had been shown to be a double-agent. This week’s episodes of The Wife began with a three-month time jump into the future showing how Sefako and Naledi’s relationship had grown. Preparations for their wedding were also underway, much to the delight of Chief Kgosi. Naledi does, however, harbour guilt for the pain her sister is in since her husband, Sello, was murdered by Qhawe. Her guilt was compounded by the fact that she is preparing to live her best life with her soon-to-be husband and royal title. During the three-month period that The Wife viewers also didn’t get to see, the Zulu brothers had been laying low from their activities at the mine after Mqhele almost lost his life. They had also been sold out by Five Tiger, the man who had introduced them to the diamond hustle on the first place, and were looking for him in an effort to get him back for his betrayal. The show’s main character seems to have developed a drinking problem in the interim and not a scene goes by without her nursing a wine glass and looking solemnly into the distance in the first two episodes. This despite her restaurant flourishing during the time jump. YOU MIGHT ALSO LIKE: TV weddings: Scandal!’s Dintle gets a fairytale wedding Mqhele seemed to have noticed that something was happening with his wife but didn’t seem to care enough to anything about it. Langa, on the other hand, tried to talk and sense into his twin sister but his pleas fell on deaf ears as Hlomu choose to drive drunk, resulting in an accident. The accident forced Hlomu to accept her drinking problem and commit to changing her ways. The fact that Mqhele wanted to hit Hlomu on her hospital bed and yall are still simping over their relationship. That man is a monster ???? #TheWifeShowmax— Nthabi (@Nthabeleng023) January 19, 2023 How about #TheWifeShowmax just make Qhawe and Hlomu run away and live happily ever after with Mthaniya and the story ends with good ending ????????. Sikhathele boh ngu Naledi who has to be ran after beke le beke???? pic.twitter.com/xtdKO0PGQv— Sun-El Malamlel (@SaneleMalamlela) January 19, 2023 There seems to be a tendency among viewers of The Wife to romanticise some of the most alarming and abusive behaviour and Qhawe’s actions in relation to Naledi are no different. Despite constantly being asked to leave Naledi alone, Qhawe proceeds to phone her from unknown numbers, show up at her job and insist on a reconciliation.  Speaking to Naledi during one of their stolen moments, Qhawe insisted that he was only defending himself against Sello.  Upon seeing that she does not believe him, he gets the bright idea to break into the royal homestead to steal the footage showing him and his brothers breaking into Chief Kgosi’s mine. It is the same footage that the Chief has been using to blackmail the Zulu brothers.  Mqoqi is problematic ???? I love him so much #TheWifeShowmax pic.twitter.com/yrzHNdJr1f— Dowsky (@Dowsky26) January 19, 2023 Because she’s up to something, Xoli is always on high alert so this week’s events led to quite the conundrum when she assumed that the family’s plans for a surprise birthday party for her were a sign that she had been discovered. This led to a very awkward moment at Xoli’s surprise birthday that the family just seems to have brushed past.  "Pew Pew" did I not die coz what the hell? Like they don't question that at all? ????#TheWifeShowmax pic.twitter.com/iToUOFNJU9— Zamathole. S (@Zamathole14) January 19, 2023 She also seems to be developing a thing for Mqhele that is bound to lead to a very messy moment. We remained loyal throughout a very shakey season 2. Waited  6 months hoping for a better season 3. Stayed loyal when more than half the cast we love left????Yet they still fail to do something as basic as having subtitles & uploading episodes correctly????????#TheWifeShowmax pic.twitter.com/G0CUQZtoQr— Mandisa Malevu???????? (@MalevuMandisa) January 19, 2023 READ NEXT: ‘The Wife’: Xoli can’t be trusted and Naledi is still annoying