Rukwa. Regional farmers urge the government to increase the speed of subsidised fertiliser distributions due to the increasing demand for maize influenced by its latest good market prices. Farmers in Rukwa Region revealed that a sack of maize that they used to sell for Sh20,000 to Sh30,000 in the 2020/21 season is currently being sold for Sh120,000 to Sh130,000. This, they say, has influenced more farmers to expand their farm sizes and production levels, thus increasing the urgent need for fertiliser to sustain production and fill the demand. Mr Josephat Mashauri said that in previous years, farmers have incurred huge losses as global supply disruptions and pandemic woes affected the agribusiness value chain. “We produce more now, and that is why we are urging the government to continue opening business and borders so that we can fully contribute in our national economy,” he said. The farmers pleaded with Agriculture minister Hussein Bashe, who is currently on an official tour in the region, to ensure that the subsidised fertilisers reach all farmers even those in remote villages. Mr Beda Chipanga said, “Honourable Minister, the farmers felt the pinch of the fertiliser prices in the 2021/22 season. Now the government has given farmers their support by providing us with subsidised fertiliser here in the city. There is plenty in our warehouses here so we are asking that it reaches our villages so as to remove the inconvenience for farmers living in remote areas.” Nkasi North MP Aida Khenan said that she acknowledges Mr Bashe for the work he is doing and for eliminating the challenges farmers face in the region. “The current price of Sh120,000 for a sack of maize has increased morale and as a result, the number of people involved in farming activities has increased,” she said. In his remarks, the minister acknowledged the existing challenges in the distribution of fertilisers to villages. As promised, the government, through the Tanzania Fertilizer Regulatory Authority (TFRA), would appoint a special officer responsible to ensure all the fertiliser is distributed evenly. “We visited one of the distributors’ (OCP) warehouses and they disclosed that in 2021/2022 they supplied 1,120 tonnes of fertiliser. However in this new season, 4,200 tonnes have been distributed in Rukwa so far. “Nkasi District utilised just 1,600 tonnes during last year’s agriculture season. This season and thus far, Nkasi has utilised about 842 tonnes which is almost 50 percent of last year’s,” added Mr Bashe.