The new year is often a time for new resolutions and, for many, the first challenge of 2023 will involve not drinking alcohol for a month. The Guardian reports that some 3.1 million Brits are embarking on a Dry January this year, while a BVA survey from January 2022 reports that 35% of French people are likely to take part in this challenge, launched in 2013 in the United Kingdom. Stopping drinking for a period of time can be hard to envisage for some. In this case, people can be affected by a phenomenon called FOMA, or the fear of missing alcohol.   Someone who decides to limit their alcohol intake may be afraid of missing out on certain events, of feeling bored or excluded at parties, or of not being able to get into the swing of certain events or moments where alcohol often plays a role. This anxiety is similar to FOMO, the fear of missing out, a social phobia that can lead some people to spend way too much time online for fear of missing out on an event, a news item, a trend or an outing with friends. ALSO SEE: New year resolutions enable individuals to empower themselves, says psychologist Alcohol is a substance often associated with celebration, festivity and shaking off inhibition, in part due to our own beliefs.  “If you’ve been teaching your brain since, say, age 15, that alcohol is a prerequisite for feeling comfortable in social situations, removing said substance is going to freak you out,” explains The Guardian.  But it can also be helpful to remember that those drunken nights weren’t always synonymous with good times.  In fact, it can be useful to question our alcohol consumption. Is it essential in our social relationships? Will a party or a night out be boring if it doesn’t involve drinking? Is having a drink the only way to unwind? Taking a month-long break from alcohol can help you find answers to these questions, either alone or with the help of a professional. Quitting alcohol, even for a month, can be difficult. At times like this, it’s wise to connect with others rather than going it alone. Try finding a buddy to accompany you in the Dry January challenge.  Social media fans can share their progress online, and digital users can try downloading the Dry January (Try Dry), I Am Sober or EasyQuit apps.