The inaugural season of the SA20 league has passed the halfway mark, but it now takes a seven-day break for the Proteas and England to square off in a three-match ODI series. South Africa’s latest Twenty 20 competition has been a huge hit, with fans packing out the stadiums across the country. There have been big sixes, tons of wickets and great catches taken — even in the crowds as the fans have got in on the act in an effort to share in the R2-million up for grabs for clean, one-handed takes. Here then is a breakdown of how things stand after 22 matches and with 11 to go. The Pretoria Capitals, with Wayne Parnell as captain, are top of the pile by some distance with five wins from seven games and 23 points. Second are Aiden Markram’s Sunrisers Eastern Cape with 17 points after four wins from eight games. Third are the Paarl Royals, also with 17 points from four wins out of eight. In fourth place are the Joburg Super Kings, with four wins from seven games and 16 points, and they’re followed by MI Cape Town (three from seven and 13 points) and sixth, and in need of a strong finish if they’re to make the playoffs, are Durban’s Super Giants with two wins from seven and eight points. England’s Jos Buttler, who plays for the Paarl Royals, is the top run-scorer so far, with 285 runs at an average of 40.71 and a strike-rate of 123.37. His highest score is 68. Joburg Super Kings captain Faf du Plessis is second on the run-scorers list with 277 runs at an average of 46.16 and strike-rate of 148.12. Third is Will Jacks of the Pretoria Capitals with 270 runs and he’s followed by Heinrich Klaasen (Durban’s Super Giants, 259 runs), Aiden Markram (Sunrisers Eastern Cape, 200 runs) and Jon-Jon Smuts (Sunrisers Eastern Cape, 193 runs). ALSO READ: Proteas go into England series without top-scoring batters England’s Will Jacks of the Pretoria Capitals has been the most destructive batter so far, having hit 26 fours and 19 sixes. Faf du Plessis of the Joburg Super Kings has also been in great form, smashing 29 fours and 10 sixes, and third is Jos Buttler (Paarl Royals) with 31 fours and four sixes. Jon-Jon Smuts of the Sunrisers Eastern Cape has also found the boundary on a number of occasions – 23 fours and five sixes. Thanks to his six-wicket haul in one match for the Sunrisers Eastern Cape, Roelof van der Merwe leads the way for number of wickets taken, namely 14 from six outings. Second is Proteas quick Anrich Nortje for the Pretoria Capitals with 13 from seven games and he’s followed by Paarl Royals spinner Bjorn Fortuin, with 13 as well. Team-mate Evan Jones has got 12 wickets. In fifth place is Gerald Coetzee of the Joburg Super Kings with 11 from five games and he’ followed by team-mate Aaron Phangiso, who’s been suspended for an illegal bowling action, with 10 wickets. Most catches – David Miller with nine Highest team total – Capitals 216/6 and Super Giants 216/4 Highest score –  Faf du Plessis with 113 not out Best bowling figures in innings – Roelof van der Merwe 6/20 in five Most runs conceded in innings – Ferisco Adams 63 in four Best partnership – Faf du Plessis and Reeza Hendricks 157