Figuring out new methods of how to negotiate the latest bout of load shedding, feeling helpless in the fight against crime and corruption and seeing no end to the high unemployment levels and rising cost of food and fuel, many South Africans do not view our current government in a good light.  While the frustration from the public is understandable, we can’t blame the government for everything as many of the problems we face daily are beyond their control.  ALSO READ: ANC plans for Eskom likely to worsen load shedding, maladministration woes However, many of the daily travails can be squarely placed at government’s door and we are more than entitled to ask: “What are you doing to fix it?”  A country needs strong leaders to steer them out of tough times and this is not happening under President Cyril Ramaphosa’s watch. It’s led to loud calls for him to reshuffle his Cabinet – and not just recycle his incompetent ministers as union federation Cosatu has cautioned.  We need fresh blood with brave, innovative ideas to lead us out of the doldrums. Not more loyal ANC cadres who have failed dismally in other portfolios.  University of Pretoria politics lecturer Roland Henwood said: “The majority of ministers should go. Poor performance in government is to a large extent due to poor leadership and lack of expertise. One or two changes are not going to bring the required results to get SA out of the decline. It is time for ministers to retire, especially very long-serving members – some going back to the Mandela administration.”  Spot-on. Dynamic leaders must take the reins. A number of ministers are passed their sell-by date. It’s unlikely they were ever right for the job in the first place.  ALSO READ: Cabinet reshuffle: Cosatu cautions against recycling of incompetent ministers It’s time for a new start if we are to finally move forward. A thorough Cabinet reshuffle would be a step in the right direction.  But don’t hold your breathe, drastic change is not something our president is known for – even if the very future of our country depends on it.