Now that Covid-19 restrictions have all but fallen away and people get to go back outside and socialise, beauty and skincare – under the umbrella of self-care – are all the rage.According to a report by ETX Daily, skincare products have moved to the forefront of the beauty world with the quest for ingredients respectful of the skin and the environment.  These changes are also taking beauty in an altogether more natural direction. Additionally, social networks – TikTok and Instagram in the lead – have quickly become major trendsetters in both skincare and makeup. The new goal when it comes to either arena is to achieve a flawless complexion to avoid having to apply endless layers of makeup thanks to your ‘perfect’ natural skin. The Swiitch Beauty Super Hero Spray is a range of Korean face mists created to help tighten pores, even out skin texture and leave you with luminous, glass-like skin.  According to the band, #SuperHeroSpray glass skin mist’s hero ingredient is niacinamide, a form of vitamin B3 that supports the skin barrier, increases its resiliency, and improves texture by making pores look smaller. Niacinamide also helps balance oil production and this particular mist also contains Chinese fruit extracts, multivitamins and glycerin.   How to use it? After cleansing, before any serum go in with 3-5 mists of #SuperHeroSpray on bare skin – follow up with moisturiser and SPF in the daytime.  Local online beauty store, Beauty on TApp, created their very own skincare brand in response to the app’s community’s questions, comments, and requests for a skincare brand that addresses a wide variety of skin issues.  Namely, questions about why certain face serum active ingredients can’t be used in body care.  Pastry Skincare promises that their products are all locally baked, formulated and manufactured with the consumer in mind in addition to being backed by science and thoroughly tested.  We’re keen to try out their Salicylic Acid Body Wash created to combat acne, redness, clogged pores, inflammation, and dark patches.  ALSO READ: Trend alert: Tik Tokkers discover vaseline Late last year, hair care giant Dark and Lovely launched their Dream Big Curl Elongating Treatment and we can’t wait to create some hair magic with the treatment this year.  The revolutionary product is a hair mask that helps to soften, strengthen and add up to 2cm to 4A to 4C natural hair using new technology developed by Dark n Lovely scientists.  The Mizani thermasmooth range promises to lock out humidity and help you achieve those sleek goals. The products in the range are used for thermal styling and are aimed at creating “a smooth blowout that lives.”And since relaxers are making a comeback, more and more beauty lovers are not only looking to relax their hair but are also keen to get silk presses and pin-straight blowdried hair.  Panier Des Sens Regenerative Honey shower gel is a gentle shower that combines the antioxidant properties of Propolis with the moisturising and soothing benefits of Honey. 87% of the total ingredients in this product are from natural origin and it provides a lovely, long-lasting scent.  If you aren’t a fan of strong fragrance, this particular product might not be for you.  This product promises to fade dark spots, fight acne, smooth skin texture and get a natural glow with our multi-tasking serum. The brand says this product is one of their best-sellers and it is packed with a powerhouse blend of sustainably-sourced African ingredients like aloe and rooibos, combined with plant-identical actives such as niacinamide and hyaluronic acid.  READ NEXT: Meet the most powerful beauty influencers of 2022