Since confirming the news of her split a few months ago, social media has been rife with speculation about the state of reality TV star Londie London’s life.  Most recently, she has been plagued by three very specific rumours that she shut down on her Instagram account.  “Polygamy. Tazz. Paternity. What in the fake news is this?! You can lie or say whatever you want about me but not my kids. I’m just asking that we not disrespect each other,” she wrote on her Instagram stories.  The former Real Housewives of Durban star was responding to a report by Zimoja which claimed that she was down and out after her split from her husband Hlubi Nkosi.  According to Zimoja, questions about the paternity of one of her children and her opposition to Nkosi’s desire for a polygamous marriage are what brought an end to their union.  The relationship between Londie London (real name Londie Zulu) and her husband, Hlubi Nkosi, has had its fair share of drama over the years.  At the beginning of their relationship, they were plagued by rumours of Hlubi’s alleged relationship with another reality star Kim Kholiwe.  YOU MIGHT ALSO LIKE: Real Housewives: Durban goes international ahead of Joburg’s return  The rumours were fuelled by Londie and Kim’s online feud and the fact that both women drove similar cars at the time.  Despite this, the pair went on to get married and have two children, however, shortly after their second child was born, reports emerged claiming that Nkosi had a child outside of their marriage.  The claims came from gossip blogger Musa Khawula, who tweeted that Londie had moved out of the Hillcrest home she shared with Nkosi because he had impregnated another woman. This was followed up by a City Pressreport that the luxury car she drove was also given to this woman.  All the while, Londie had kept quiet and went on to break her silence about the split during a Kaya 959 interview with Dineo Ranaka and Sol Pheduka. “It’s been a while because I didn’t go public with it. It was a private matter. I went through quite a bit, especially with the tweets going out because people weren’t sure what was really happening,” she said, adding that there were no regrets on her part.  READ NEXT: Real Housewives of Durban season 3: LaConco, Londie and Thobile are out, meet their replacements