Dar es Salaam. Hollywood actor Idris Elba has plans to invest in a major film studio in Tanzania, the Director of Presidential Communications, Zuhura Yunus, has revealed. The plans come a few days after the British actor and humanitarian and his wife, Sabrina Elba, recently met and held talks with President Samia Suluhu Hassan at the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland.  Ms Zuhura revealed the news while briefing journalists on Monday on the outcome of President Hassan’s recent trip to Davos, Switzerland, for the 53rd World Economic Forum Annual Meeting. “Discussions on the project have just begun, and if successful, the project will help not only Tanzania but also Eastern and Central Africa,” she said. Elba has a net worth of $40 million (Sh92 billion) according to latest estimates. In an interview with South Africa's SA People, the British movie star said he not only wants to make more films in Africa, but wants to help develop the film industry on the continent. The 49-year-old actor starred in the new movie ‘Beast’, which has been entirely shot in South Africa, and revealed that he wants to pave the way for more major films to be made on the continent. Elba, whose mother and father hail from Ghana and Sierra Leone respectively, told the newspaper: “I’m really keen on the development of Africa. My parents come from Africa and more than anywhere in the world, I feel like that continent deserves some real tender care and love and thought. “Young Africans view me as a leader or a beacon. And I feel like I could bring something. So I’m keen to bring what I’ve learned in media and amplify it in Africa. Elba is known for performing as Nelson Mandela in the biopic film named ‘Mandela: Long Walk to Freedom’ which was released in the year 2013. Among his awards and honors, Elba has been earned four times nominations for a Golden Globe Award for Best Actor- Miniseries or TV Film. Apart from acting, Elba also established his career as a musician and has performed as a DJ under the moniker DJ Big Driss and as an R&B musician. In 2016, the actor was also named in the Time 100 list of the Most Influential People in the World. Moreover, his films have earned more than dollar 9.8 billion at the global box office including more than dollar 3.6 billion in North America. This led him to become a highest-grossing actor among others.