The Saturday, January 7 edition of the tabloid closely associated with this columnist has a Page 3 story entitled, ‘Chadema, CUF announce nationwide political rallies’. Therein, the scribbler says in Para 2: “While the CUF national chairman Prof Ibrahim Lipumba would be launching political rallies today at the Bhakressa Grounds in Manzese, Chadema is set to do so on January 21, 2023. “HOWEVER, in a quick rejoinder, police force spokesperson David Misime said the law enforcers are ready and well organised to manage gatherings that would be slated...” Read carefully the statement that starts with “While…” and the following one that begins with “However…” You’ll notice that the second statement doesn’t contradict the preceding one in anyway. It actually complements it. Which is to say, the adverb “however” has been misused. Our wordbook explains that HOWEVER “is used to introduce a statement that contrasts something that has just been said.” You might, for instance say: “He STUDIED VERY HARD and we all admired him for that. However, to our surprise, he FAILED his semester exams!” Towards the end of his story, the scribbler purports to quote a Chadema official and writes: “Rallies will then trickle down to the GROUND ROOT levels…” Ground root levels? There’s nothing like that in the English book of idioms. What we have is GRASSROOTS (level), referring to the most basic level of an activity. You may also use “grassroots” to mean the ordinary people regarded as the main body of an organisation’s membership. And then, before me is a copy of the Saturday, January 7 edition of Bongo’s senior-most broadsheet which has a Page 2 story entitled, “President Samia makes appointments of public institutions’ leaders”. In this one, the scribbler writes in Para 6: “A statement issued by the Director of State House communications Zuhura Yunus states that Dr Samia also appointed Justine Mwandu A board chairperson of the National Insurance Corporation (NIC)…” Hello; there can only be ONE board chairman for this particular state corporation, the NIC, which is to say, Mr Mwandu has been appointed THE (not “a”) board chairman of this parastatal. Just like HE Samia Suluhu Hassan is THE (not “a”) President of the United Republic of Tanzania. There’s another misuse of the indefinite article in a caption for a photo on Page 3. The caption reads: “Zanzibar President…and other leaders receive a briefing before AN official inauguration of Salum Turky Kwa Bint Amran Secondary School as part of activities to mark “Zanzibar’s 59th Revolution” in the Isles yesterday.” There was just ONE inauguration of the Salum Turky Kwa Bint Amran Secondary School; which is to say, the event was THE (not ‘an’) inauguration, that took place on January 6. Furthermore, our colleague who penned the caption—needless to say—errs when he says, “Zanzibar’s 59th Revolution”, because history shows us there had been only ONE Zanzibar revolution (not 59 of them!). That is, the one that took place on January 12, 1964. I’m certain the caption writer meant to say: “…activities to mark the 59th ANNIVERSARY of the Zanzibar Revolution.” Readers of Bongo’s huge and colourful broadsheet of the date we cite above were also treated to a goofed caption for a photo highlighting the occasion we celebrated yesterday. It reads: “Tabia Maulid Mwita (3rd L), Zanzibar’s Information, Youth, Culture and Sports minister, unveils plaque (sic!) at yesterday’s launch of a car park “…The event was held as part of the countdown to the climax of celebrations to mark “the 59th of the January 12 REVOLUTIONARY.” No comment! Page 3 of the same broadsheet has this story: ‘Govt will use NFRA in buying maize…” and in Para 5, our colleague writes: “ Minister Bashe said that in some areas in Rukwa, maize starts to RIPE and dry in April…” Maize starts to ripe? Nope; they start to RIPEN. Ah, this treacherous language called English!