Do you have a dream? How big is it? “Dream big,” as the wise saying goes. Regardless of our background and our surroundings, we all have the right to dream and pursue our dreams. If we are determined, then nothing will stop us from achieving our dreams, given that we do all that it takes to reach them. In pursuing your dreams, give your best in whatever you do to make it happen. And even when your best is not enough, keep learning and improving. Never give up, and never allow challenges to stop you from achieving your dreams. Let me tell you the story of a little boy from Rosario, Argentina, who has emerged as one of the greatest in his field. Lionel Messi simply dared to dream, and he was courageous and persistent enough to achieve his dream. After discovering his football talent, the boy played with much effort, and even those around him realised how good he was. When asked about his ambition, he stated unequivocally that he wished to be one of the greatest footballers in history and to win the world cup. Still a child, he faced the first obstacle when, at the age of 11, he was diagnosed with a rare disease called growth hormone disorder. This condition prevents the body from growing as it should with age. Luckily, one of the big football clubs spotted his unique talent and volunteered to help him get medication. He survived the illness, and he kept on growing and pursuing his dream. He played good football and won millions of fans, but he couldn’t reach his dream of winning the World Cup. Apart from this, he won everything else he competed in. He was criticised by many, and at times he felt that it was not his luck to win it. He almost gave up on the way. After fighting for 16 years, he finally won. He was so happy, and so did his many fans. As he celebrated achieving his dream, he said, “I knew God would bring this gift to me.” This shows that though he had a big dream, he never considered his challenges as obstacles, but rather as ways to make him stronger and an opportunity to learn and improve towards achieving his dream. So do you! Dream big, and commit yourself to achieving it. Challenges will be there, but it is possible!