Dar es Salaam. Singida Big Stars head coach Hans Pluijm says his side is ready to face the tough challenge of Simba SC on Friday at the Benjamin Mkapa Stadium in Dar es Salaam as the Mainland Tanzania NBC Premier League resumes. The encounter has been scheduled to kickoff at 7pm and is expected to be thrilling. The two teams drew 1-1 in their first leg held at the Liti Stadium in Singida, where Simba came from behind to equalize through Peter Banda. Pluijm said all his players are in good shape, although they are going to miss the services of Deus Kaseke, who is serving a three -match ban and Yassin Mustapha, who is still nursing his injury. “It is not going to be an easy match as Simba are a strong side, who also target victory to close the point gap with the league leaders, Young Africans (Yanga). We want to replace Azam FC in the third position by outshining Simba,” said Pluijm. The match’s centre of attractions will likely be Meddie Kagere, Serge Pascal Wawa, Nicholas Gyan and Saidi Ndemla, who will be playing against their former employers. The players featured for Simba in various league seasons as well as in international matches. “We know Simba’s strength in the league. “They are good and I admit that we are facing a tough test. We will be playing at the away ground, where we will have to do our best. “Technically and tactically, I am ready to show our prowess as I am still sharpening my squad,” said Pluijm. He said his players are doing fine in training and that during the match day, all technical matters would be ready. “We won the tough match against Azam FC at the home ground. We want to maintain our winning streak and improve our chances in the league standings. ” he said. For his part, Singida Big Stars’ Media and Communications Manager Hussein Massanza called on the team’s fans to attend the encounter in order to support their players. Massanza said they are taking the encounter seriously and are unfazed by Simba’s players. “Our main target is to continue with our winning note. So far, we have managed to record victories in five matches consecutively out of six we played. One game (against Mbeya City) ended in a 1-1 draw. The same fighting spirit will be applied on Friday,” said Massanza.