The Sharks know exactly what style of play the Stormers will bring to their crunch United Rugby Championship derby at Kings Park on Saturday, because they will be looking to play the same way, fullback Aphelele Fassi said on Thursday. While the Stormers still top the South African Shield and have a 12-point lead over the Sharks, the home side will bring confidence and momentum (as well as a game in hand) to the clash following their gutsy victory in Edinburgh last weekend that saw them climb back into the top eight in the standings. “The coastal derbies are always special and we are playing the defending champions, so it will be a cracker,” Fassi said. “We know exactly the style they want to play, the threat they will bring at the breakdown and the set-piece. “We just need to be able to match that and be clinical in taking the opportunities we identify. It’s the two dominant teams in South Africa, playing a similar style, so it will be entertaining. “There was massive character shown by us last weekend in Edinburgh, the boys are definitely proud of that and we are bringing lots of belief and energy to the Stormers game. “It would be different if we were coming off two losses on the road [the Stormers lost away to Glasgow and Ulster last month], but we have a lot of energy. Both sides are going to really bring their games to the party,” Fassi said. ALSO READ: Jake White opens up about near-death experience Being the last line of defence is part of a fullback’s trade, and it was pleasing to see Fassi make four crucial tackles as part of the Sharks’ brilliant scrambling defence against Edinburgh. The 25-year-old has been omitted from the Springbok squad lately due to tackling deficiencies. “I’ve worked on quite a few things since just recently coming back from injury,” Fassi said. “I was told by the national coaches that there were certain things in my game that I needed to fix. “Everyone knows about the tackling and there are also things in my kicking game. Those are the key things I work on, but I also work on my strengths so you don’t forget them. “How you see progress is by what is shown on the match pitch under pressure, you don’t see it on the training ground because there’s no pressure there. “I’m proud of myself that I can actually say that I have progressed. You never want to miss a tackle or kick out on the full, but you only become better through repetition,” Fassi said. Meanwhile, the Sharks team for the Stormers clash has been announced and again shows a few changes due to Springbok players having to rest. Ox Nche and Thomas du Toit sit out this week, as does Grant Williams. Team: Aphelele Fassi, Marnus Potgieter, Ben Tapuai, Rohan Janse van Rensburg, Thaakir Abrahams, Curwin Bosch, Cameron Wright, Phepsie Buthulezi (capt), Henco Venter, James Venter, Gerbrandt Grobler, Hyron Andrews, Carlu Sadie, Kerron van Vuuren, Ntuthuko Mchunu. Bench: Dan Jooste, Dian Bleuler, Hanro Jacobs, Reniel Hugo, Sikhumbuzo Notshe, Bradley Davids, Lionel Cronje, Yaw Penxe