Kilombero. The Julius Nyerere Hydropower Project (JNHPP) is facing a threat caused by ongoing environmental damages in the Kilombero valley in Morogoro region, which is a key source of water. The dam, which is expected to generate 2,215 megawatts of electricity, depends on water flowing from the wetlands of the valley to the Rufiji River that fills the power plant. Rufiji also depends on water from the Kilombero basin which contributes about 65 percent, Luwegu River which contributes 15 percent, Ruaha River (19.5 percent) and other small tributaries that contribute 0.5 percent. While the government is implementing the Sh6.5 trillion project, there is an increase of human activity in the valley with the government estimating an average of 17,515 residents increasing every year in the Kilombero District. According to the report of the Comptroller and Auditor General on government accounts that ended on March 31, last year, the size of the wetlands had already decreased by 72 percent in the Kilombero valley. A recent trip to the valley under the Southern Tanzania Elephant Programme (STEP), a non-governmental organisation, witnessed damages that require quick fixes. “Now the elephants are used to us, they come again in daylight and eat mangoes, watermelons, oranges or pomegranates,” says Mohamed Libongoi, a resident of Kanyenje Village, in Ifakara. “When I moved here in 1994, there were no elephants in the streets at all but now they are a nuisance. They attack rice farms and last November they killed an old man at Msalise neighbourhood,” he said. “Sometimes the elephants come home, eat oranges, and leaves. We are asking the government to help us,” says Mwajuma Lioko of the same village. The population increase has contributed to the expansion of agricultural and fishing activities and businesses. The population has increased from 321,611 residents in 2002 to 582,960 in 2022, equivalent to an increase of 13,067 every year for the past 20 years. According to the Government website, the 23 villages surrounding the valley are Luwembo, Maulanga, Miwangani, Namwawala, Idandu, Kalenga, Kikwambi, Mofu, Miyomboni, Nakagulu, Ijia, Isago, Luvilikila, Mkangawalo, Chita, Melela, Chisano, Karangekelo, Msolwa, Miembeni, Kibugasa and Ngalimila. The National Environmental Conservation and Management Council (Nemc) in collaboration with the National Electricity Corporation (Tanesco) has begun researching the area to find the possibility of removing some residents to save the safety of the Kihansi and Kidatu dams which are power sources. “Without action, the dam face threats. We will assess the invasion situation, the villages involved, and which areas should be relocated. The government will not agree to invest in such a large project and then destroy it,” says Nemc Director General, Samuel Gwamaka. Monitoring and Evaluation Manager for the USAID Conserve Natural Resource, John Noronha says the government should look at the decision broadly and take immediate action. “The government should listen to the people and recognise that they have the basic right to housing, but they should be educated about the importance of the area. The government should agree with them before relocating,” he says. The Minister of State in the Vice President’s Office responsible for the environment, Dr Suleiman Jafo did not receive calls or respond to messages for three days in a row when he was contacted to discuss strategies and measures to deal with the threat in the dam. However, Tanesco environment director, Dr Richard Mayungi says that the state-run company has already prepared 15 measures that will start being implemented next month to rescue the dam. “In 2004/06, the government invested in the Ruaha Mkumu River and the breeders moved to the valley. It lacked good management and the consequences were serious. So, first of all, political will is needed for success in the valley,” says Dr Muyungi. According to him, the volume of water in the dam, which is expected to be full within 18 months, has already reached more than 100 meters above sea level before starting to generate electricity before by 2025. The dam has the capacity to store 32 billion litres. Dr Muyungi says among the measures to be taken against the safety of the Rufiji River basin is to cooperate with the leaders to move to the lower Ruaha at the cost that will be required. “The area we suggested is Utete, the headquarters of Rufiji District, as it is a very good area to stay,” he adds. He says a team of experts have organised villagers in Kilombero valley to support tree-planting campaigns that seeks to plant more than one million trees. “Another activity will be to evaluate agricultural activities that damage water sources. We just need cooperation.” The Minister for Energy, Januari Makamba says that in line with the Tanesco’s efforts, the ministry has allocated Sh5 billion to be used to save all sources of electricity. “We have directed Tanesco to start CSR in the valleys including the Kilombero River valley with that budget. In the past, we waited for water to come to the dams, now we want to strengthen those sources. This electricity investment will all be lost if we do not care about the environment,” he says. “The problem is selfishness. There is a lot of land for grazing but regardless of who enters there, the village authorities should be responsible. They have been empowered by the Environment Act 2004 to issue fines to those who destroy the environment.” The deputy Minister for Natural Resources and Tourism, Ms Mary Masanja says the government has already started taking measures to reverse the ongoing damages in all the valleys in the country including the valley, under her team. “We have already agreed to remove one village of Ng’ombo, located in Malinyi District due to the importance of the area. Now we have sent our team of experts to the valley and they will bring us a report. The government will evaluate and remove them with compensation, then they can choose where to move to,” she says. The committee of eight ministers to resolve the land disputes of 975 villages and neighbourhoods in the country concluded its work last month in Dar es Salaam, legalising the settlement of some controversial borders after passing through several regions including Dodoma, Kigoma and Kagera. “That valley has a GN (Government Notice) of conservation area and most residents there are invaders. We are now planning to save the core of the JNHPP dam. We will remove some of them and they will choose where to move to because the issue of housing is a person’s choice,” says Ms Masanja. Conservation Commissioner of the Tanzania Forest Service Agency (TFS), Prof Dos Santos Silayo says the agency continues to collaborate with other authorities to control the damages. “We have strengthened all the forests around the valley. What was done in the JNHPP project is only to clear the water filling areas of trees,” he says. This month, President Samia Suluhu Hasan declared the entire area of land with a size of 6,989.3 square kilometres within the Malinyi, Ulanga and Kilombero districts as Kilombero Forest Reserve, upgrading from the status of the wilderness. Morogoro regional Natural Resources Officer Joseph Chuwa, says the announcement prohibits construction and livestock keeping in the area. “The area is located in the Kilombero valley. Efforts to raise the status were made between 2011 and 2023. Now some of the neighbourhoods that are outside the boundaries will be removed and the valuation procedures are already underway, to ensure that we prevent the destruction,” he says. “Currently, if you bring livestock into the forest, you will be fined Sh100,000 per head. We are appealing to the villagers to cooperate in protecting the area.” The national chairman of Pastoralists Association, Mr Jeremiah Wambura, calls on all cattle breeders in the country to recognize the importance of the environment in the area. “We need to respect the law and to avoid those challenges we should focus on modern farming.”