The mystery surrounding the disappearance of AKA’s tombstone has finally been revealed, putting all rumours to rest.  Fans were left puzzled when they visited the rapper’s gravesite only to find his tombstone missing, even though it was seen just days before at his funeral. Speculation of theft and foul play began to spread like wildfire.  ALSO READ: WATCH: AKA’s family addresses claims of friends’ involvement in shooting AKA’s tombstone was not stolen, but taken back by the stone mason because it could not be installed on the same day as the burial. This was verified by Josh Kenp, the Operations Manager at Authentic Stones, following widespread rumours about the missing tombstone. ALSO READ: ‘Are we planning to shoot and kill all our stars?’: Reactions to AKA’s death Kenp said the tombstone was removed to prevent it sinking into the ground. “The family is very much aware that the tombstone was removed after the burial. “The tombstone was only at the funeral on Saturday for unveiling purposes, hence it was removed afterwards.  “Once the burial is over, we still need to lay a concrete foundation then we install the tombstone on top of the concrete foundation, otherwise if we installed the tombstone on Saturday, the tombstone would have sunk,” said Kenp. ALSO READ: AKA lived up to his stage name, right to the very end “Normally, cemeteries have certain rules as to when tombstone installations can be done. “Some cemeteries permit tombstones to be installed within three months and some after six months. “At the Westpark Cemetery where AKA has been laid to rest, you can’t do the installation directly after the funeral and you are not allowed to do installations on Saturdays, so we have to install it during the week where we will lay concrete foundation as the burial is already done. “But because the cemetery gave us a special permission to install the tombstone of the late legend immediately, this is why we will install it back again either this week or next week,” said Kenp. NOW READ: ‘Jou ma se p***’ shouts Maurice Paige after comedian jokes about AKA’s murder on stage