You were supposed to visit Tanzania earlier on, but due to Covid you had to reschedule. Tell us about your experience as artists during the Covid era. How much did it affect your music and performance? We were really lucky because we were given a beautiful house to rehearse in, so we did not have to worry about wearing masks like everyone else in New York. However, there were no live concerts, so we did lots of recording projects because of that, which wasn’t fun because the audience makes the music come alive; they give us the energy to make the music. But, thank goodness we made it through, and we had lots of hours to rehearse, which was actually very valuable, because now when we get together it takes a very short time to figure out what we are doing and right away we get comfortable together. Tanzania has Bongo Flava, what type of music do you play? Classical music. People use “classical music” very loosely and broadly, but actually, the classical era is a very specific moment in past music. This was the type of music played in the 1700s—Mozart and Beethoven were big classical music composers. There’s actually a lot of music from that era that has never been performed. It’s worth mentioning that, when we say classical music right now, we are referencing Western classical music because, as we understand it, different parts of the world have their own classical music. What made you decide to come to Tanzania? My brother moved to Dar es Salaam; he works for a startup called Nala as the Chief Operating Officer (COO). He called us when he was in Arusha and showed us this beautiful scenery and said, “It’s so warm; there’s a mango tree over here.” And we were like, “We have to come.” So we wanted to book a flight and come, but then realized that it was very expensive, and that there’s no way that we can make that just happen. But then we realized that we wanted to come here with a purpose, so we found out that there was a grant through the US Embassy, which we applied for and ended up getting. So the grant enabled us to come here with a purpose: to be able to share our music and also learn local music, a sort of exchange. Did you perform with some of the local artists in Tanzania? Yes, from Zanzibar and Arusha. It was wonderful. What was the best part of your trip to Tanzania? When we were in Arusha, we got to see how people lived and what schools they went to. We also liked how they reacted to music they had never heard before. They were singing and dancing. We also went on a one-day safari to Ngorongoro, where we got to see some of the big five animals. It was the first time seeing the big five. There are zoos in the West, but they’re not the same. At Ngorongoro, the group got to see the Big Five animals. PHOTO | COURTESY I saw that you played African Beauty and Cheche, songs by Diamond Platnumz. Who introduced you to bongo music? My brother, because he lived here. He was the first person who wanted us to do a mashup. We liked it so much that we still listen to the music. What other local artists or songs do you know after being in Tanzania for a few days? So far, we know about Zuchu and Harmonize. What Swahili words have you learned? One of our favourite words is rafiki (friend), lala salama (goodnight), vizuri sana (very good), asante (thank you), and karibu (welcome).