Dar es Salaam. Amidst unavailable data related to unclaimed and unidentified bodies buried somewhere, with their loved ones either non-existent or unaware of their passing, little is known about the potential of forensic science in uncovering the mystery. Although unclaimed bodies are distinct from unidentified bodies, with the former, often, quite a bit of information is known but the later nothing is known, a harder task lies in uncovering their true identity. The law states that such bodies will be preserved in morgues for 21 days waiting for family members, friends, or community members who would want to claim them and organise their funeral or burial. Besides, people have rights to bury and mourn their loved ones, but without proper identification, it’s hard to conduct such rituals. However, advancement of technology can potentially uncover such identification mysteries behind unclaimed and unidentified bodies no matter its status. Speaking in an exclusive interview with The Citizen, a forensic anthropologist Wilson Jilala confirms that the biological profile of unclaimed or unidentified human remains plays a critical role when it comes to uncovering the identity. “Forensic science – including the use of fingerprints, dental records, and DNA analysis in identifying human remains, can help families to not only establish fates of their missing relatives, but also their remains can be identified and returned to them for proper burial,” he explained. However, for Tanzania, Mr Jilala thinks more has to be done for a smooth execution in relation to the identification of human remains, as things seem to be operated in an old-fashioned model. “For instance,” he illustrated “a proper biological data needs to be recorded when one files a missing report, proper record both at the hospital, and from the morgue need to be maintained. But also the local authorities should maintain a proper database of persons buried under their care.” The forensic anthropologist was of the view that after being buried, respective local authorities should mark the respective graves (with numbers) through which identification process would be easier in the case of an exhumation order. In fact, according to the law, burial rituals in the country are family/community affairs, but there are a number of cases whereby one’s body is either unclaimed or unidentified. Majority consider a well-established practice whereby a family bury their loved ones, whether at familial gravesites or in government established gravesites, is indeed an honor to the deceased, but having them buried by local authorities is similar as throwing an empty canister into the jungle. “Not all bodies are buried by local authorities but others are donated to medical institutions for studies about anatomy through cadaver dissection, a fundamental anatomy teaching and learning tools for medical students,” Mr Jilala revealed. Besides, rules 4 – 9 under section 128 of chapter 16 of the country’s penal code, governs and regulates the use of unclaimed bodies for biomedical studies, and that there is no law provision for whole body donation. With medical school, Mr Jilala thinks they too need to have proper documentation which of course should begin at the time when cadavers are donated to them. “When unidentified person dies at the hospital, responsible experts should create a biological profile. This includes collecting DNA samples, fingerprints as well as dental pictures. In fact, these and other factors serve well when connecting the dots in order to have his/her identity,” he clarified. According to him, other countries do mummify, while others embalm them, and that they don’t rush in burying them as a claim might arise, and the court orders for exhumation which will be followed by laboratory analysis, if positive, then the remains are accorded to the respective families. “Last year, there was an incident whereby the court ordered the exhumation of a deceased body for identification, 50 graves were exhumed, analysing DNA samples of each and every remains, yet with negative results,” he recalled. “If the graves were labelled, and biological profile established, they would have gone right away in determining the true identity of the person in question, no need for unearthing 50 graves, yet you are looking for only one person. No room for guess work, which consumed time, energy and funds.” “While I was informed that in 2022, at least 49 bodies were tagged as unidentified in Dodoma; in 2017/18 we had about 342 unidentified bodies countrywide, and since there was no one to claim the said bodies were buried by local authorities. According to him the situation is worsened by the fact that police posts, even at a district level, are not linked to each other. “For instance, if a missing person is reported at a police post in Tegeta suburb, and if the same person happened to have been injured in a road collision at the Ubungo interchange, there is no way the two police stations can exchange information,” he explained. “And since the law stipulates that after 21 days if not claimed, then local authorities come in. The body will be buried or donated to medical schools. Yet his/her family will continue with the search in order to locate him/her. In their research article dubbed: ‘The Biological Profile of Unidentified Human Remains in a Forensic Context,’ US-based anthropologists Ms Dana Austin and Ms Rebecca King, believe biological profile of unidentified body is a critical component of an anthropological evaluation of unidentified human remains. The authors explained that the said profile is used to search for missing persons that may match the decedent. According to them, the individual components of sex, ancestry, stature, and age at death require reliable methods to ensure accurate recording of these biological markers. On the other hand, the article showcased an unidentified skeleton that was misclassified as a female when the original evaluation was done in 1963, but when revaluation in 2004; quickly led to resolution of the identity. Last year, this paper reported on a growing trend of unclaimed bodies of patients that die in public hospitals without identification or having no relatives and guardians to collect for burial as per requirements of customs and beliefs. For instance, the report indicated that in 2020, Mwananyamala regional referral hospital, recorded at least 44 unclaimed and unidentified bodies, but the number increased to 50 bodies in 2021 though data for the last year is unavailable. According to the facility, factors associated with the said growth were attributed to road accidents, mob killings, abandoned patients in hospitals and homelessness to be among others. A reliable source who preferred anonymity at the said hospital was quoted as saying: “Victims of road accidents are usually taken to hospitals by police and Good Samaritans, making it difficult to link them with their families.” “Mob killings are also an issue, as angry people may strike or burn beyond recognition a theft suspect such as gang members of the notorious ‘Panya Road’ and no one comes to claim the deceased’s body.” For Dr Amina Salum, an independent health consultant, before a body is treated as unclaimed or unidentified, the government should try to link them with their families, and it is with this, I subscribe to having proper documentation in place. “I believe no one has got no relatives, the documentation should immediately commence when one is reported missing, the police force should exhaust all necessary information, they should publish this information even on their website,” she explained. According to her, with advanced technology, she doesn’t see the reason why police posts are not interlinked. “I was shocked to learn that even the local government workers responsible for burial service do not have a clue on the people they are burying, this isn’t right. Something has to change; of course, if not provided with such info from mortuary attendants, then they will too have none,” Dr Salum added. The health consultant was of the view that since there will always be unclaimed and unidentified bodies, the police force, hospitals, and local authorities’ system in place, will need more improvement. The mentioned improvements include having a plan that follows the reasonable search procedures, the police force who are in fact the first respondent in the matter, should make use of DNA checks, fingerprints, dental checks, and other ways to try and work out who the person is.  