Question: What led you to visit Tanzania for the first time? Answer: When there were only two choices of countries to travel to, I chose Tanzania because I had already visited Turkey. Most of my closest friends suggested that I visit Zanzibar. I had neither heard of this island nor its location. When I touched down in Zanzibar, everything fascinated me, from the beaches to the people and the food.  Also Read: A Tanzanian adventure with Ambassador Donald Wright What did you like about Tanzania? Tanzania is not only beautiful; it is also a highly peaceful country where doing business is not as difficult as it is in other countries, especially for foreigners. When I began my business in this country, it did not take me much longer to acquire all the certifications that I needed to start my business.  What is your favorite place in Tanzania? That is a really difficult question to answer because every place I have seen has been so breathtakingly gorgeous that I can never get enough of it, including Mount Kilimanjaro, the Serengeti National Park, and Zanzibar itself. Given the chance, I would definitely visit these places again.  What is one thing that you did not know about Tanzania that shocked you when you first learned about it? When I learned that the Masai men cover their bodies with one piece of clothing that hangs on the napes of their necks despite the seasonal changes, I was surprised. Back in my country, during the summer, people would wear lighter clothing and heavier clothing when it was winter, but the Masai wear that design at all times. I was shockingly fascinated. I loved how that was connected to their culture, and in a way, I wanted to learn more about it.  Earlier, you briefly described how magical Pemba is. Why is that? One of my clients has a resort in Pemba, and when we began working together, I visited that side of the country for the first time. It has its own natural beauty besides being both less developed and explored than Unguja. The air is fresh, and the beaches are even cleaner than the blue water on other islets. It is so divine and peaceful to the mind because it has not been exposed to other people. There is a belief that before one becomes an investor, they have to visit the site where they would invest as a tourist.  How was this for you? It is important for the investor to visit the place they plan to make that investment because it helps in understanding the business nature of the people in that place and the rolling of the investment processes from the very beginning to the end, as well as the government regulations and certifications needed for that particular kind of investing. Another important thing is that this person would also have to understand the lifestyle of the place he is planning to move to, and by playing “the tourist,” he can understand all of these at once.  What are the reasons that led you to establish a consulting agency in Zanzibar? Through my work, I aim at making businesses operating in Zanzibar successful. Zanzibar is one of the leading places to be visited by both local and international tourists and it is also a home to a million businesses. I have situated my business on this island because most people visit here, which promises more exposure for my work.  Being a holiday destination for many people, do you sometimes face difficulties when it comes to working in Zanzibar? It was difficult in the beginning, and there were times I forced myself to go swimming on the beach because I felt like it was only proper to do that since it is an island with scenic beaches. With time, I learned my way around that.