Form Four and Form Two national examination results came out recently, and for some, the results were not good. Hundreds of students got divisions four and zero. This may look okay if your child is not involved, but to the child and parent who have to face academic failure, especially for a critical “rite of passage” level such as Form Four, it can be stressful and depressing. The results dictate whether a student qualifies to go to high school or not for Form Four leavers, and for the Form Twos, achieving the required marks enables them to cut it to the next class. For Form Two students, failure means repeating the class. Failing any of the final exams can shatter dreams and cause huge disappointment, along with feelings of failure, hopelessness and helplessness. The way a parent or caregiver responds in this situation is extremely important, according to experts. Parent-child relationship experts advise that parents should offer their children a shoulder to lean on during such times, which can be tough, scary, and disappointing. Positive support There are four key things a child needs to hear if they are disappointed and feeling like a failure. These include letting them know that getting up after a fall is important, that success is relative because everyone is different and has different abilities and that there are many ways to achieve success other than getting a university degree. Also, they should be told that as a parent, you believe they are capable of doing anything. This kind of positive, loving support is critical. Research shows that parents are important in adolescents’ decision-making, life goals and aspirations. They also play a key role in shaping teens’ psychological wellbeing, as well as modelling both healthy and risky behaviours. Negative parenting practices like rejection, neglect, psychological control, pressure to perform, overprotectiveness, and indulgent parenting are associated with difficulty in making good decisions. Children may panic about making decisions, become indecisive – especially about career choices – or make risky decisions. It is normal for parents to be disappointed that their child’s results were not as expected. However, as a start, take a deep breath and realise that your child is struggling to come to terms with their results, too, and may believe they are a failure. This is not the time to scold and berate them about not achieving. Taking a deep breath allows for calmness in your approach to supporting your child. A more positive approach, which includes being responsive, supportive, approachable, encouraging and understanding, would be very helpful as a start to diffusing a very emotional situation for your child. Allow your child to talk about how they’re feeling about the outcome, without interrupting. It would be a good idea to find out if your child has thoughts about the way forward. This could be the first of a few paced conversations over a few weeks. This will allow for some perspective and give your child the chance to think things through. That helps them to develop feelings of ownership in decision-making as well as boosting their confidence and competence. This is important for the satisfaction of psychological needs to achieve psychological wellbeing. If they haven’t thought about what comes next, you could consider exploring the options together, building a plan B and C since plan A was not achieved. Everybody fails at one time in life Monitor your child and their wellbeing in this time. You may feel that you need to draw in others, such as a counsellor, psychologist or social worker, or a teacher or friend your child is close to, to help map out the next steps, provide options, or just as additional support for you and your child. Like children, parents also need help to cope with the failure of their children. Parents are usually equally affected when their children fail, because of the heavy emotional and financial investment that goes into their children’s education. What therefore should parents know? Failure is universal. We all fail at one time or another. Failure is not unique to your child. Most successful people have failed many times. Your child can also bounce from failure and succeed, if you help them with the right attitude and tools. So rather than shield them from failure, you will do well to prepare and encourage them when they fail. What should your child’s success look like? Thank God, we have so many life opportunities available for children to make it in life, away from academics. The best-paid earners currently are not scientists but sportsmen and women. What do you want for your child and what is he/she capable of doing? Go for that. Truth be told, we are all not meant for academics or class. Some are meant for the field and it is okay. Maybe your child is such a child. Make peace with that. Rather than demoralise them and talk to them with demeaning tones, how about you celebrate their strengths in other areas where they have competencies? It is common knowledge that the poor-performing students in school later in life employ the best-performing students. And I think it is true. Stellar performers in class usually go on to work in formal employment, while the poor performers usually go on to start businesses, create things and employ people. My team leader at work does not usually ask for curriculum vitae from job applicants. I have never given him mine because he has never asked for it, yet I have worked with him for close to four years now. He gives a potential job candidate a task and it is their competence or lack of it that decides their fate. He cares more about what one can produce than the academic grades on their school certificates. After my primary leaving exam, I had a conversation with my mother and she asked me to predict my scores. I told her what I expected and lucky enough, it was exactly what I got. She did the same for my siblings. In doing this, I am sure she and ourselves were not aware that she was preparing us for any eventuality, but looking back, I appreciate the fact that she gave us time to tell her upfront if we expected to fail or not. This way, we could be honest with her and that would prepare us to handle the blow that failure could inflict. Encourage children If a child has tried their best but their best is not enough to cut it to the next class, do not compound their problems by speaking negatively to them or comparing them with other children. Rather, lean in and encourage them to try again next time. Also, help them put the failure in context. Maybe their poor grades showing at the finals was a result of factors that they had no control over such as the divorce of their parents. Remind them that failure is not the end of the world, they can move forward by learning from their errors. Every child needs to hear this from their parent. It is important for their esteem and motivation. Remind them that some people have failed at one level and excelled at another, so there is hope. Parent coach, Nancy Rose, in her book, Raise the Child You have Got- Not the One You Want: Why Everyone Thrives When Parents Lead with Acceptance, advises parents to accept their children instead of trying to change them to fit expectations. They are probably failing not because they are unintelligent, but because they possess a different passion or skill set. Anita Muhairwe Malinga, a career coach at Shine Leadership International, says: “No child should be failing, if we, the parents helped them determine their career paths early on in life. If you engaged them in activities that play into their strengths, they will excel and you will not have to worry about what they can or cannot do and in the process, they will be winning all the time while enjoying themselves.” Flavia Nampala, one of the directors of Bereans Educational Initiative, adds, “The cost of educating the learners who failed, should not be wasted. These vibrant young men and women are ready to be productive and economically engaged in production.” “They can be taught functional skills in literacy and be empowered to start small business enterprises as an alternative path of education. This is better than to repeat a year of what may not help them to position themselves in the global market,” she adds. Thomas Edson, the inventor of the light bulb, demonstrated one. He is quoted to have said, “I have not failed. I have found 10,000 ways that will not work.”