Unguja. After 19 successful years, Sauti za Busara, one of Africa’s leading festivals, today Friday, February 10 kicks of its 20th edition at the Old Fort (Ngome Kongwe) in Stone Town with the DCMA Young Stars, a group of talented young children from different schools across the island performing with musicians and teachers from Zanzibar’s Dhow Countries Music Academy. According to festival director, Yusuf Mahmoud, today marks the first of three days of celebrating African music and cultural diversity with a wide array of artists from across Africa gracing two stages. Apart from two stages inside the Old Fort, for the first time the festival will also on Saturday February 11, host several free performances during the day at Fumba Town, a project by CPS. Speaking in Zanzibar, festival director Yusuf Mahmoud called on Tanzanians to join with the many visitors already arriving from all corners of the world to witness and participate in this unique spectacle. “Today, we kick off a unique and magical experience when Zanzibar hosts three days and nights of 100% live African music. We are especially proud of this year’s 20th anniversary edition, with a truly world-class line up to satisfy audiences from all backgrounds,” said Yusuf Mahmoud. According to Mr Mahmoud, the two decades of song and dance has made Sauti za Busara one of the most respected African music festivals that continued to operate, even throughout the challenging years of a global pandemic. “For two decades now, we have demonstrated resilience and agility in our support for artists, whilst emphasizing the power of music to speak against certain ills in our society.” Acknowledging the fact that Africa is a huge continent with different histories and cultures but with common aspirations, this year’s edition runs under the theme ‘Our Diversity is Our Wealth.’ Commenting on some of the great acts that graced the Sauti za Busara stages, festival manager Journey Ramadhan named some of the artists whose performances stood out over the past two decades. “We have hosted hundreds of groups but musicians such as Zanzibar’s legendary Bi Kidude, Sampa The Great (Zambia), Nneka (Nigeria), Bassekou Kouyate (Mali), Blitz the Ambassador (Ghana), Sarabi (Kenya), Samba Mapangala (DRC), Ba Cissoko (Guinea), Sholo Mwamba, Saida Karoli and Jagwa Music (Tanzania) were highly appreciated by everyone,” said Journey Ramadhan. In a year that was preceded with uncertainties, this year’s event would not have been possible without the core funding of Fumba Town by CPS, who came to the festival’s rescue after initial sponsors withdrew due to unforeseen circumstances. Speaking at the event CPS-Fumba Town’s CEO Sebastian Dietzold said they are proud to be part of one of Africa's greatest musical extravaganzas which has over the years left lasting memories. “In the same way that Sauti za Busara brings diverse people from diverse countries to celebrate diverse music from diverse cultures, Fumba Town also brings together people from different countries and cultures to purchase and enjoy affordable residential and holiday homes in Zanzibar,’ he noted. 