Dar es Salaam. President Samia Suluhu Hassan has made minor changes, including dropping one minister in a cabinet reshuffle, transferring deputy ministers, and appointing new Permanent Secretaries and deputies. Samia has also transferred the ministry of investment from the prime minister’s office to the president’s office. The changes come just a few days after Samia made another minor change, transferring Minister of Culture, Arts, and Sports Mohamed Mchengerwa to the Ministry of Tourism and Natural Resources, exchanging positions with Ambassador Pindi Chana to the respective ministry on February 14. On the same note, Samia also made changes to two permanent secretaries, she appointed Dr. Hassan Abbas as PS of the Ministry of Tourism and Natural resources and Said Yakub as PS of the Ministry of Culture, Arts and Sports. Read:President Samia drops 37 district commissioners in sweeping changes In a reshuffle announced on Sunday February 26, by the state house directorate of communications, Abdallah Ulega has been promoted as the Minister for Livestock and Fisheries, replacing Mashimba Ndaki. In addition to that, the head of state has removed the position of permanent secretary of fisheries and instead the Ministry of Livestock and Fisheries will now have one PS and two deputy general secretaries, respectively. The President has appointed musician Hamisi Mwinjuma aka Mwana FA Deputy Minister for Culture, Arts, and Sports. He replaces Pauline Gekul, who has been appointed deputy minister for constitutional and legal affairs. Five deputy ministers have been moved to other ministries as a result of the cabinet reshuffle; From the ministry of Culture, Arts and Sports, Pauline Gekul, now becomes deputy minister for Constitutional and Legal Affairs replacing Geoffrey Pinda. Geoffrey Pinda has been appointed deputy minister for Lands, Housing and Human Settlement Development, whereas Ridhiwani Kikwete has been relocated to become Deputy Minister in the President's Office (Public Service management and Good Governance). Kikwete replaces Deo Ndejembi, who becomes Deputy Minister of State in the President’s Office (Regional Administration and Local Government), to replace David Silinde, who has been appointed as the Deputy Minister for Livestock and Fisheries.  Regional Commissioners’ change In another development, the head of state has made changes to the top jobs in three regions as follows: Christina Mndeme, a former CCM deputy secretary general-Mainland, has been appointed regional commissioner of Shinyanga. She filles the vacuum left by Sophia Mjema, who in January was appointed the CCM’s secretary ideology and publicity. Dr Francis Michael becomes Songwe regional commissioner. Before this appointment, he was the permanent secretary at the ministry of education, science, and technology. Dr Michael replaces Waziri Kindamba, who has been moved to the Tanga region to fill the vacuum left by Omary Mgumba, whose has been dropped by the president.  Appointment and relocation of PS and DPS  Newly appointed PS’s are; Dr Tausi Kida- PS Investment Juma Mkomi- PS in the President's Office (Public Service management and Good Governance). Ambassador Samwel Shelukindo-PS foreign affairs and East African cooperation Professor Caroyn Nombo- PS Education, Science and Technology. Gerald Mweri- PS Agriculture Dr Seif Shekalaghe- PS minister of health Nadhifa Kemikimba- ministry of water Kheri Mahimbali- ministry of minerals Moahmmed Khamis- PS ministry of Information, Communication and Information Technology  Transferred PS’s Professor Riziki Shemdoe- PS from President’s Office (Regional Administration and Local Government) to the ministry Livestock and Fisheries. Dr John Jingu- From (Prime Minister’s Office - Policy, Parliament and Coordination) to the ministry of Community Development, Gender, Women and Special Groups Dr Jim Yonazi- From ministry of Information, Communication and Information Technology to the Prime Minister’s Office - Policy, Parliament and Coordination. Adolf Ndunguru- From ministry of minerals to the President’s Office (Regional Administration and Local Government).  Anthony Sanga- From ministry of water to the ministry of Lands, Housing and Human Settlement Development.  Appointed deputy PS  Dr Charles Mahera- President’s Office -Regional Administration and Local Government (health). Prior to that he was director of elections at the National Electoral Commission (NEC). Sospeter Mtwale- President’s Office (Regional Administration and Local Government). Dr Franklin Rwezimura- Ministry of Education, Science and Technology. Dr Hussein Mohammed Omar- Minsitry of Agriculture. Cyprian Luhemeja- Ministry of water. Previously he served as Chief Executive officer of Dar es Salaam Water and Sewerage Authority (Dawasa). Lucy Kabyemera- Ministry of Lands, Housing and Human Settlement Development. Athuman Mbutuka- energy ministry. Previously, he was Chief Internal Auditor. Anderson Mutatembwa- Ministry of Tourism and Natural Resources. Daniel Mushi and Agness Meena- Ministry of Livestock and Fisheries. Selestine Kakele- Ministry of Information, Communication and Information Technology In addition to that the president has transferred two deputy permeant secretaries; Dr Grace Maghembe went from the President’s Office (Regional Administration and Local Government) to the ministry of health, and Nicholas Mkapa from ministry of Lands, Housing and Human Settlement Development to the ministry of Culture, Arts and Sports. In another development, Samia has appointed Ramadhan Kailima as new director of elections at the National Electoral Commission (NEC). The newly appointed officials will be sworn in on Monday February 27, 2023 at  State House,  Dodoma.