Dar es Salaam. The opposition ACT-Wazalendo will unveil its new slogan today, emphasising its commitment to tackling people-related issues such as economic policies, social welfare, and healthcare. Speaking exclusively to this paper, party head Zitto Kabwe said: “During the event, we will unveil a new slogan that will carry the party from now on, but we will also launch the party’s vision as well as three issues that we will focus on.” ACT Wazalendo is celebrating two years of operation without its chairman, Seif Sharif Hamad, and plans to stage its first rally since the ban on political rallies was recently lifted. Mr Kabwe explained that today’s corporate event is meant to introduce the party to members of the diplomatic corps, the business community, the media, and their colleagues in the country’s political arena, where national leaders of the 19 registered parties are invited. Mr Kabwe said in October last year that ACT Wazalendo would undergo reforms this year, establishing new rules and an administration structure—a promise that has now been achieved. As part of the said reforms, the three major issues that the party is set to tackle include a promise to provide a dignified and happy life, guaranteed employment and a decent income, and the provision of social security for everyone. “Youth engagement is becoming increasingly important in Tanzania, as the country has one of the fastest-growing youth populations in the world. It is estimated that 70 percent of the population is under the age of 35, making up a clear majority,” he observed. “So we are going to address challenges related to unemployment, underemployment, and poor working conditions, which in fact deny them the right to a decent income and social security,” he added. Mr Zitto further explained that after the corporate event, his party will on Sunday (tomorrow) begin its first phase of nationwide rallies in Mbagala, a Dar es Salaam suburb, tackling issues related to the rise of the cost of living, food security, and corruption. “We will also disclose the loss that occurred as a result of running the country in the dark after political rallies were banned; we are going to incite the public to reject such an administration because they are entitled to know their government’s businesses,” the ACT Wazalendo’s boss remarked. According to him, his party has documented several serious issues, some of which the office of the country’s Controller and Auditor General (CAG) has questioned, but they remain unsolved. “Such issues will be addressed not only in Mbagala square but also in other rallies that would be scheduled throughout the country, beginning with Dar es Salaam, Zanzibar, the Coast region, Lindi, Mtwara, Ruvuma, Tabora, and Kigoma,” he added. ACT Wazalendo will be the third political party to begin its rallies following the lifting of the ban early in January this year, as announced by President Samia Suluhu Hassan. The Civic United Front (CUF) was the first to conduct its rallies in Dar es Salaam (at the Bakhresa Grounds); Chadema was the second party, with its rallies launched in Mwanza.