The biblical story of one man who was mighty and strong, Samson his woman Delilah made our Sunday school tales. How the man was cajoled and eventually subdued to disclose the source of his strength is a story for another day. Lately, many men have come out in the open and decried being clobbered to a pulp by their women. In the past, it was anathema for a man to have his daylights beaten out of him by women let alone talk about it. Well, we live in an interesting time and nothing is more shocking. The gist of this week’s column is how some women can be so destructive that the only way is to walk out on them and never look back. There is a caveat here though – where children are involved, it becomes a real problem A man known to this writer is a trainer in martial arts. He has represented the country in Taekwondo but he stood no chance in front of his wife. He would come to work looking like one who had spent the entire night in a meat mincer – with all manner of scratches and wounds sustained by his wife. This used to baffle men. How on earth would a black belt holder be beaten to a pulp by a woman? Well, that was their secret. Financial gobbler The second kind of woman a man should never touch with a ten-metre pole is the type that siphons away resources to her relatives. A brother of mine who has been on a peacekeeping mission in in different parts of the world was almost sent to a mental asylum after he realised that the money and property that he had risked his life in foreign countries for was almost depleted. The woman had sold some household items spiriting away the proceeds to her family. We had to move fast otherwise he would have lost everything. He actually did the most asinine thing – he built a hotel on the property owned by the woman’s relatives. How men are convinced to agree to such torments is beyond this writer’s understanding. Even when my father-in-law passed on and everything was handed to my wife, I still don’t own a centimetre and I would be very stupid to wallow in the thought that my wife inherited her late father’s property.