Maritzburg United coach Fadlu Davids has been reunited with Tebogo Thlolane once again.  ALSO READ: Leopards want Ferreira to pay for leaving them hanging Thlolane and Davids worked together at Maritzburg, while the former was on loan from Orlando Pirates some four years ago.  The duo worked together again at Pirates where Davids was assistant coach and co-coach while Thlolane had returned to his parent club.  Davids was recently brought back by Maritzburg United as head coach following the firing of John Maduka. “The 28-year-old has returned to the Team of Choice after he had been a shining light at Orlando Pirates and Chippa United, having started his career with Jomo Cosmos,” reads a statement from the club.  “The skilful left-sided player featured in thirty-four league and cups games during his previous stint at the Blue Army. “His previous stint saw him making a sizable impact and was slotted seamlessly into the side.  “He will be looking to continue the form he displayed during his spell at the (KwaZulu-Natal) Midlands outfit.” Thlolane is quoted in the same statement saying he is happy to be back in Pietermaritzburg, which has become a familiar hunting ground. “Firstly, I am grateful for the opportunity I’ve been given to represent the team again,” says Thlolane.  “I have good memories with the Team of Choice and I hope to create more and be the best that I can be and help the team do well.” Davids says Thlolane will add to his attacking arsenal: “Having him back in the team is a huge boost to our squad.  “His attacking prowess and playmaking abilities will complement our strike force and give us the dimension that we need in our attack.  “Having worked with him, I know that he will make a positive impact upon being given an opportunity.” ALSO READ: Five boxes new Chiefs striker Saile ticked on his debut Thlolane returned to Maritzburg on Tuesday after he was released by Pirates having failed to make the team under Jose Riveiro. He might make his debut for the Blue Hearts on Friday evening when they meet provincial rivals AmaZulu FC in a DStv Premiership match.  The match is expected to draw a huge crowd at Harry Gwala Stadium, where Maritzburg enjoy a decent following.