“It’s one thing to say you’re going to take on the game but you’ve still got to go out and do it,” Proteas captain Temba Bavuma pointed out before expressing his delight that his batting line-up did indeed go out and do it in their ODI series win over England. Even when losing the dead-rubber third ODI by 59 runs in Kimberley on Wednesday night, South Africa still batted with marvellous intent, scoring 287 runs in 43 overs, a run-rate of 6.67 per over. Their winning totals in the two previous matches were 347/5 and 298/7. ALSO READ: Temba Bavuma: ‘I am still here. I deserve to be here’ “Through the series it became a lot clearer what it meant when we were speaking about expressing ourselves and taking on the game,” Bavuma said at the end of the series. “Even today we were always up on par with the run-rate. It’s a big step for us and it gives us confidence, even though it’s only three games and it’s still a long journey. “We can be very proud of how we have performed. It’s one thing to say you’re going to take on the game, but you’ve still got to go out and do it. “The skill has always been there, it’s just the mindset that has changed. We’re looking for guys to be matchwinners, encourage them if it is their day to go out and win the game.” While Heinrich Klaasen, who led the charge in the third ODI with his fiery 80 off 62 balls, spoke afterwards about the pressure being placed on players by selectors who don’t allow them to fail when they are playing with freedom and taking aggressive options, Bavuma said, in the rarefied air of international cricket, the responsibility is still on the players to produce the goods, even while taking risks. “International sport is ruthless and if you are looking for security when you fail, well I’ve never felt that,” Bavuma said. “Within our team though, we want to play a certain way and if you play that way, then we will give you the rope that you deserve. I’m sure (new white-ball coach) Rob Walter will look at that when he arrives. “But as players we can’t be looking for comfort, it is the responsibility of the player to execute the way we want to play. To be consistent, we will keep speaking the same language and challenge each other. “We want to stretch ourselves, and then the results will take care of themselves. Taking 20 Super League points off the world champions is an ideal start.”