Springbok lock Eben Etzebeth is on course to become a South African rugby legend, and could by the end of his career be considered among the all-time greats, after he added the SA Rugby Player of the Year award to his growing list of accomplishments earlier this week. At just 31-years-old Etzebeth has claimed major titles such as the Currie Cup, Rugby Championship and World Cup, but this is the biggest individual award of his career to date. Unless he gets injured, he will have a chance to defend the World Cup with the Springboks in France later this year, and he could very well compete in the next edition in 2027 as well, considering he stays in form and relatively injury free. In July last year Etzebeth became just the seventh Springbok to make a hundred appearances for the national side. He is currently sitting fifth on the appearances list on 110 caps, with Victor Matfield’s record of 127 Bok caps well in his sights, but he admitted that it wasn’t something that he was specifically targeting. “I have always kept my goals close to my heart. I have never really told people about them. I have seen many players in the past announcing their goals aloud and then it never happens,” explained Etzebeth. “So for me just playing good rugby for the Sharks and being selected for South Africa is what I want to achieve. If that goal of beating the (appearance) record comes it will be fantastic. But I don’t want to sit here and tell you that it’s one of my goals.” Looking ahead to the World Cup which kicks off in September, Etzebeth said the Boks have a good chance of defending their title, but that up to eight teams have a chance of winning it and that they will have to be at their very best to be there at the end. ALSO READ: Same old story: Lions must find a way to hang on to best players “We as a team know that we have to be good contenders at the World Cup, because we are the reigning champs. The coaches and the team know where we stand and we know if we bring our A game we will have a great shot at it,” said Etzebeth. “We are going to have to pitch up at the tournament, win at least three out of our four pool games and then win three in a row (in the knockouts) against quality opposition to win the World Cup. “For France it is home ground advantage and they will be motivated by a passionate crowd. But the desire is there for us to defend the World Cup. If you ask any of the top teams the desire to win that trophy is what drives them.” Etzebeth continued: “I feel there are eight teams that have a realistic chance to win the World Cup and all of them will have the same desire as us. “We are in a tough group. Scotland and Ireland are both quality opposition. So we are going to have to be on top of our game every week.” SA Rugby Player of the Year: Eben EtzebethFinalists: Lukhanyo Am, Kurt-Lee Arendse, Siya Kolisi, Frans Malherbe SA Rugby Young Player of the Year: Canan Moodie (Springboks / Bulls)Finalists: Sacha Feinberg-Mngomezulu (Junior Springboks / South Africa ‘A’ / Stormers), Jaden Hendrikse (Springboks / Sharks), Evan Roos (Springboks / Stormers), Henco van Wyk (South Africa ‘A’ / Lions) Springbok Women’s Player of the Year: Nadine RoosFinalists: Lusanda Dumke, Aseza Hele, Zintle Mpupha, Aphiwe Ngwevu Springbok Sevens Player of the Year: JC PretoriusFinalists: Selvyn Davids, Zain Davids Junior Springbok Player of the Year: Sacha Feinberg-MngomezuluFinalists: Suleiman Hartzenberg, Ruan Venter Team of the Year: StormersFinalists: Pumas, Springboks Coach of the Year: John Dobson (Stormers)Finalists: Jacques Nienaber (Springboks), Jimmy Stonehouse (Pumas) Currie Cup Premier Division Player of the Year: Sebastian de Klerk (Pumas)Finalists: Willie Engelbrecht (Pumas), Devon Williams (Pumas) Currie Cup First Division Player of the Year: Jaywinn Juries (Griffons)Finalists: Jaiden Baron (Boland Kavaliers), Duan Pretorius (Griffons) Provincial Women’s Player of the Year: Lusanda Dumke (Border Ladies) Referee of the Year: Aimee Barrett-Theron United Rugby Championship Player of the Season (announced last year): Evan Roos (Stormers)Finalists: Lukhanyo Am (Sharks), Marcell Coetzee (Bulls), Warrick Gelant (Stormers), Ruan Nortje (Bulls), Vincent Tshituka