Question: Can you introduce yourself? I was born in Japan, in a city called Kyoto, one of the most beautiful cities in Japan. I began my journey in the realm of diplomacy around 40 years ago. I had never been to Tanzania before I was appointed to serve as an ambassador.  For a person who has never been to Japan, especially in the city you were born in, what could you tell them about Kyoto? Kyoto is not only one of the most popular places, but it is also a major tourist destination for people from all over the world due to the city being the home of temples of different kinds. When I was a child, I used to play in temples, and to date, I cannot even name the number of temples there are throughout the city. Probably a thousand. Each temple carries its own tradition and culture.  One of your posts was about Mount Fuji; can you tell us more about the mountain? It is the highest volcanic mountain in Japan. However it has been now dormant for a very long time, although it is still considered an active Volcanic Mountain.  There have been debates surrounding the lack of Tanzanian restaurants in the Diaspora; but in one of your posts, you showed us that there is a Tanzanian restaurant in Japan. Can you tell us about your experience? It is a restaurant in the heart of Kyoto, and it is called “RM Asili Café & Dining,” owned and run by a Tanzanian. The restaurant has not only attracted her fellow Tanzanians; but also Japanese. When I visited, I had ugali, beef, and salad on the side, which was really delicious.  You are well known for Japanese signature attires called kimonos and yukatas; can you tell us about them? These two are traditional Japanese clothes, in which the only difference between them is the material used to make them. However, kimonos are a bit more expensive and are worn in special occasions. Japan's ambassador to Tanzania Yashushi Misawa during the interview. PHOTO | CORRESPONDENT Is it appropriate for people from other countries to wear them? Absolutely! Anyone can wear both of them.  You have a ceremony called “Hanamaki Festivals.” What does it mean and how is it celebrated? These festivals are always celebrated at the beginning of a new season or at the turning point from winter to spring. It is during times like this that families harvest crops.  We saw how much more polite the Japanese were during the World Cup, from attending and cheering on matches that were not their own to cleaning up the mess in the rows that they were not responsible for. This was such a puzzle for the world. What are the reasons that led them to do that? This is a common habit in Japan. It all stems from the way our parents nurture us, as well as the way teachers in schools cement our parents’ teachings with their own, which makes it easier to grow up with such habits.  In 2022, it was your first time visiting Zanzibar; how was your experience? It was magical! It was such a beautiful experience, like the island itself. Ambassador Misawa east BiryanI in Stone Town, Zanzibar. PHOTO | COURTESY There is a Tanzanian musician named Fresh Jumbe who resides in Japan. How do you enjoy his music? I enjoy his music very much. I must admit that before coming to Tanzania, I had never heard of him. However, when I began my work in Tanzania, in between learning about the relations between the two countries, I found out about him.  How can Tanzanian musicians expand their music fanbase to Japan? Japanese already love Tanzanian music; there are artists who are well known in Japan, such as Alikiba. We are still thinking of a great way to promote more Tanzanian musicians in Japan.  There are posts that showed that you visited Ngorongoro; how was that experience? It was a very exciting adventure. I got to see different animals, such as lions, elephants, ostriches, and flamingos.  Where else have you been aside from Ngorongoro? I have not been to other places; however, there are plans underway to visit different places and national parks in Tanzania, including the Serengeti and Selous Game Reserve. We are welcomed by villagers of Lemanda in @ArushaCouncil with goats meet, makande, wali na nyama and traditional yogurt flavored milk with mahindi. Very tasty but a little too big portion for me. Asante sana ! pic.twitter.com/DOq2aNmiuh Have you learned Kiswahili since you came to Tanzania? I keep learning. It now and then, ila Kiswahili ni kigumu sana, however its pronunciation Is fine. Most of us who learn the language can only use it when we are interacting with the societies in Tanzania.