Here’s your morning news update: An easy-to-read selection of our top stories. Stay up to date with The Citizen – More News, Your Way. EFF MPLs in the KwaZulu-Natal Legislature were on Friday booted out of the provincial parliament. This was after the party’s MPLs had disrupted Premier Nomusa Dube-Ncube’s State of the Province Address (Sopa). The MPLs, who were removed by members of the SAPS from the venue where the Sopa was being delivered at Pietermaritzburg’s Oval Cricket Stadium, had refused to be addressed by Dube- Ncube, whom the red beret claimed is a “liar”. READ MORE: WATCH | EFF disrupt KZN’s Sopa after accusing premier of being a ‘liar’ African National Congress (ANC) Free State provincial chair, Mxolisi Dukwana, has been elected the province’s new premier. Dukwana, who recently served as the Free State’s Economic Development MEC, was elected on Friday morning during a special setting of the provincial legislature in Bloemfontein. READ MORE: Mxolisi Dukwana elected Free State premier Struggling state-owned entity Eskom has announced it has appointed Calib Cassim as Interim Group Chief Executive Officer with immediate effect. The power utility said Cassim will lead the Eskom management team until further notice. Cassim’s appointment follows the explosive exit interview with independent television news station eNCA, with former CEO André de Ruyter. READ MORE: Eskom appoints Calib Cassim as interim group CEO ALSO READ: Mbalula tells Free State ANC Dukwana is Luthuli House’s preferred candidate for premier Multiple new Lord of the Rings films are on the way from Warner Bros, the Hollywood studio behind Peter Jackson’s blockbuster Oscar-winning trilogy said Thursday. David Zaslav, CEO of parent group Warner Bros. Discovery, told an earnings call that recently appointed studio chiefs Mike De Luca and Pam Abdy had struck an agreement to make more movies based on JRR Tolkien’s epic fantasy books. READ MORE: New ‘Lord of the Rings’ films announced by Warner Bros Since Mamelodi Sundowns arrived in Egypt, the cold winter temperature has been averaging at lows of 12 degrees and when Downs take on Al-Ahly on Saturday night, the weather has been forecasted at 13 degrees. With Masandawana coming from a hot South African summer to the cold weather in Cairo one would think the players will struggle to adjust to different temperatures. Sundowns head coach Rulani Mokwena, however, does not seem to think so. READ MORE: Cold Egyptian weather will not affect Sundowns, says Mokwena