There is a sense of urgency within the government as far as the implementation of the Bagamoyo seaport is concerned. It is obvious now that the government is now determined to build the port that it regards as a strategic project to the economy of Tanzania and for decongesting the perennially jam-packed Dar es Salaam port. This determination received a boost on Tuesday when the Parliament’s Public Investment Committee urged the government to expedite the construction of the port to, specifically, decongest Dar es Salaam. While the Bagamoyo port project is a good idea there are, however, issues around the project that have to be seriously considered first. The first one, obviously, is whether the government’s cash flow can withstand yet another mega-project set to cost trillions of shillings. After the pulling out of the Chinese investors it rests upon the government to finance the project. As the Director General of the Port Authority (TPA), Plasduce Mbossa put it when he met directors of the East African Business Council (EABC) last year ‘investors, if they are interested, will join the government along the way.’ The government is implementing various infrastructure projects that are set to put a strain in the public debt stock in the medium and long-term. The largest of these projects are the SGR, the Julius Nyerere Hydropower Dam and the Bus Rapid Transport (BRT) phases two, three and four. With the SGR and the Nyerere Dam projects alone set to cost $10 billion, questions are asked whether it is prudent to undertake another project. TPA says the project design would be significantly scaled down from the original concept to reduce the financing burden. But would that result in the envisaged impact on the economy as the original mega-port idea? Can the project wait till when it is timely enough to attract the interest of credible investors?.  Walk the talk on e-learning Tanzania is best placed to exploit the full potential of ICTs in public schools and colleges because of its easy access to cheaper internet from the submarine communications cables. But despite the benefits of the full use of digital technologies in our education system there is still no enough action to make sure it becomes a reality in the country. And yet time is not on our side, if our children and grandchildren have to compete in a world already defined by advancements in digital technologies. The idea is not that Tanzanian childre should all be experts in ICTs but rather they should be able to use digital technologies to facilitate and simplify learning, mainly through e-learning. Public schools, for one, have a serious shortage of qualified teachers. If online learning was enabled it could help bridge the teacher shortage gap. With digital technologies it would also be easier for teachers to use digitally generated learning aids to help school children grasp their subjects with much more clarity. Online learning, when it is mixed with a good dose of practical learning skills can increase school children’s innovation. It is high time the government put more emphasis on ICTs in schools as it promised after the Covid-10 pandemic.