Here’s your morning news update: An easy-to-read selection of our top stories. Stay up to date with The Citizen – More News, Your Way. Gauteng premier Panyaza Lesufi announced during his State of the Province Address (Sopa) on Monday that e-tolls have been permanently scrapped. The premier explained that all the finer details would be ironed out in the near future. READ MORE: Sopa 2023: E-tolls permanently scrapped More than R400 million has so far been paid to the victims of the Life Esidimeni tragedy, with much more expected to be paid in the future. This was revealed at the provincial legislature’s health committee meeting on Friday, according to the Democratic Alliance’s (DA’s) Gauteng health spokesperson Jack Bloom. READ MORE: Life Esidimeni: R400m paid to victims, with more compensation expected Stage 6 rolling blackouts are set to continue across South Africa until Wednesday evening, according to outgoing Eskom chief executive officer (CEO) André de Ruyter. “We will have load shedding stage 6 prevailing until Wednesday evening peak. And by Thursday, we will then be able to start phasing that down to load shedding stage 4 with load shedding stage 3 being reached by the weekend,” he said. READ MORE: Stage 6 load shedding to continue until Wednesday evening, Eskom confirms Kevin Hart wrapped hisReality Check tour in South Africa over the weekend with a surprise guest who appeared on his last show. Trevor Noah received a thunderous welcome back home.  Hart performed three shows at SunBet Arena, Times Square in Pretoria from Friday, as his first show was last Wednesday in Cape Town.  READ MORE: Trevor Noah’s thunderous applause during Kevin Hart’s last show Kaizer Chiefs management is said have the back of coach Arthur Zwane despite unfavourable results at the club, which has seen the coach being questioned by the club’s supporters. ALSO READ:‘It’s their right’: Zwane reacts to booing from Chiefs fans Zwane, who is in his first season as a Chiefs coach, is currently under pressure at the Soweto side due to some poor performances – on Sunday, Chiefs were beaten 3-2 by Golden Arrows. READ MORE: Chiefs management backs troubled Arthur Zwane