Dar es Salaam. A famous betting firm in the country, M-Bet Tanzania, is enjoying its partnership with Simba Sports Club, despite the fact that they are yet to complete one year since they signed the deal. Simba Sports Club and M-BET Tanzania have signed a five-year sponsorship deal worth Sh26.1 billion. The deal is the most lucrative in Tanzania football and historic for the Msimbazi Street giants. M-Bet Tanzania marketing director Allen Mushi commended the club for their best performances in the league as well as in the African Champions League, whereby they have qualified for the group stage. Mushi said they are really enjoying the partnership with the club whose members and fans have been hooked with their activities in the country while enjoying their first class betting services. “Basically, we are in positive direction and we are appreciating the cooperation from fans, members and team stakeholders,” said Mushi. For his part, Simba’s new Chief Executive Officer Imani Kajula commended the firm for agreeing to work with Simba. Kajula, who also met with M-Bet Tanzania Managing Director Dhiresh Kaba, said they are consent with the sponsorship obligations by M-BET Tanzania and promised to honour terms of the contract. “It is a win-win situation and we are all enjoying a mutual-gain approach from our negotiations and now both parties are working together to meet interests and maximize value creation. Basically, we are satisfied with our partnership resulted from the high level of professionalism,” said Kajula. Kajula called on Simba fans, members and stakeholders to continue supporting the firm’s activities so that to strengthen their relationship. As per M-Bet Tanzania sponsorship packages, Simba will be receiving Sh4.67 billion while the amount will increase in the second season with the club pocketing Sh4.925 billion and Sh5.205 billion will be given to Simba in the third year. The firm will give Simba Sh5.514 billion in the fourth year and later Sh5.853 billion will be given in the fifth year. M-BET Tanzania is also sponsoring Simba’s women team, Simba Queens.