Here’s your morning news update: An easy-to-read selection of our top stories. Stay up to date with The Citizen – More News, Your Way. The South African Tourism (SA Tourism) intends to find out who leaked the documents about the nearly R1 billion Tottenham Hotspur sponsorship deal. The proposed deal with the English Premier League football team has been met with anger and backlash after details on the matter emerged last week. This resulted in the resignation of three SA Tourism board members with immediate effect amid the outrage. READ MORE: SA Tourism board trying to hunt down Tottenham deal whistleblower Former president Jacob Zuma has turned to the Constitutional Court (ConCourt) seeking to overturn President Cyril Ramaphosa’s interim interdict. Zuma’s legal team filed its leave to appeal application on Monday, asking the ConCourt to reverse the 16 January judgment which ruled in the president’s favour. The Johannesburg High Court granted Ramaphosa an interdict pending the outcome of his challenge to the private prosecution bid against him. READ MORE: ‘There’s no justice in SA’: Zuma heads to ConCourt in legal battle with Ramaphosa Hundreds of residents have been evacuated from Komani (formerly Queenstown) after heavy overnight rains caused flooding in the Eastern Cape town. The heavy rainfall led to the Komani River overflowing. There doesn’t seem to be any respite either. An orange level-5 warning for disruptive rain was issued by the South African Weather Service (Saws) on Wednesday. READ MORE: Hundreds evacuated as Komani battered by floods There is a running joke in Hollywood and pop culture about the age limit award-winning actor Leonardo DiCaprio has when he is dating, which is when a young woman hits the age of 25 and older he isn’t seen in a relationship with them. So when pictures of the forever bachelor surfaced over the weekend people were surprised when he was spotted with a 19-year-old.  DiCaprio, now aged 48, has a history of dating younger women: his recent rumoured girlfriend is teen model Eden Polani. READ MORE: Twitter trolls Leonardo DiCaprio after rumours he is dating a 19-year-old SA Rugby’s director of rugby and 2019 World Cup winning coach Rassie Erasmus is set to release his memoir later this year. Erasmus is expected to tell all about his life, on and off the field, as a Bok player, provincial coach and as Bok leader at the 2019 World Cup. Titled “Rassie: Stories of Life and Rugby” the memoir will be published by Pan Macmillan SA in southern Africa and Pan Macmillan UK in the rest of the world. It will be written with David O’Sullivan, the well-known broadcaster and award-winning writer, and is set to hit the shelves in the third quarter of this year. READ MORE: Rassie Erasmus’ memoir on ‘rugby and life’ to be published in late 2023