Dar es Salaam. After shining in the Group Stage encounter of the CAF Confederation Cup against TP Mazembe of the DRC last Sunday, Young Africans SC (Yanga) are today back in action in the Mainland Premier League game against Kinondoni Municipal Council (KMC). The encounter has been scheduled to kickoff at 4pm at the Benjamin Mkapa Stadium in Dar es Salaam. Yanga, who are in group D of the CAF Confederation Cup, won 3-1 over TP Mazembe at the Benjamin Mkapa Stadium to become the first team to have recorded victory over the Congolese side in the continental club championship. Despite the victory against one of the African giants, Yanga should not expect to do the same against KMC on a silver plate following preparations that the Kinondoni side have so far undergone. Basically, KMC are not in the safe position in the league standings. They are placed 12th with 23 points from 22 matches and victory will improve their chance in the league log. Yanga, who are the defending champions, are at the top with 59 points from 22 matches and victory will stretch their lead in the league standings. The records in the league standings will make the encounter to be most crucial and each team targeting victory. KMC assistant coach Ahmad Ally said they are taking the match seriously despite facing the defending champions of the league. “It is going to be a tough game because we are facing the team that are yet to lose a single match and are the defending champions. Basically, KMC are the underdogs, but we are targeting to come out with a good result to improve our chances in the league standings,” said Ally. Yanga assistant head coach Cedric Kaze predicted a tough encounter, believing his players will record victory to bag the three points to maintain the top position. Kaze said although his players faced a tough match against TP Mazembe, their task remains the same, which is to record victory. “I do not underestimate KMC, we have played against them several times and managed to do our best. My players are in high morale and ready to face KMC’s challenge,” said Kaze.