At least nineteen Bangladeshi nationals were rescued from suspected human traffickers in Mpumalanga. The foreign nationals were rescued after a dedicated Ehlanzeni District Intelligence Task Team pounced on the criminals on Monday. Police spokesperson Brigadier Selvy Mohlala said officers received information about the Bangladeshi nationals being kept hostage at a house in Kamagugu outside Nelspruit. “The members found 19 Bangladeshi males in a three-bedroom house. They further found that their cellphones were placed in one plastic bag, which suggested that they had no access to communicate with either their relatives or friends.” “As a result, a 52-year-old Bangladesh national, who served as the housekeeper was arrested for human trafficking and he is due to appear in Nelspruit magistrate’s court soon,” Mohlala said. Mohlala said the 19 Bangladeshi nationals found in the house will be charged for contravention of Immigration Act. “Our investigation continues to probe their destination and the kingpins however preliminary investigation suggests that some were en route to Middleburg while others destined to Johannesburg.” The Acting Provincial Commissioner of the Saps in Mpumalanga, Major General Zeph Mkhwanazi has commended the work done by the team. ALSO READ: Kidnapping syndicate targeting LGBTQ community in Gauteng nabbed Earlier this month, Gauteng police arrested four members of a kidnapping syndicate who targeted members of the public based on their sexual orientation. The suspects were handcuffed by several authorities including the JMPD K9 unit, Gauteng Traffic, Tracker Connect and members of the private security industry at a restaurant in Parktown. Police spokesperson Athlenda Mathe said the men who have been  targeting the Lesbian Gay Bisexual  Transgender and Queer (LGBTQ) community would use a dating app designed for this community to lure their victims to secluded places before kidnapping and robbing them. Last month, police arrested five people, including a Zimbabwean kingpin, for their involvement in the kidnapping of a Midrand businessman. A multidisciplinary team led by the National Anti-Kidnapping Task handcuffed the group including the Zimbabwean man, his wife and girlfriend. The Midrand businessman was kidnapped on 18 January 2023.  ALSO READ: Zimbabwean mastermind among five nabbed for kidnapping of businessman