Dodoma/Tanga. A Presidential appointment is something that many lobby for and some would do anything to be on any of the list,  but not to Leah Ulaya and Japheth Maganga. Ms Ulaya and Mr Maganga were part of the 37 DCs who were appointed by President Samia Suluhu Hassan on January 25, however,  they did not turn up to take the oath of office at their respective regions. The two are high profile officers at the CWT (Teacher’s trade union) holding positions of President and the secretary General respectively. Ms Ulaya was appointed District Commissioner for Mbogwe in Geita, whereas Maganga was appointed Kyerwa DC in Kagera region. The two senior CWT officials are yet to comment on why they did not take oath of office. And now, the Minister of Public Service Management and Good Governance, Jenista Mhagama has said that they are waiting for information from the relevant ministries so that they can take action. The other day, the Heads of Regions, Martin Shigela of Geita and Albert Chalamila of Kagera at different times said that they had no information about the DCs while swearing in the district heads of their regions. While the other appointees were being sworn in, Leah and Maganga were attending the CWT executive committee meeting in Tanga which has been going on for a week. Though the response to the appointment has elicited thousands of reaction on social media and beyond, Minister Mhagama said she was not aware of the situation and had only seen in the media that the two were not ready to take oaths. She said that according to the Constitution, the President has the power to delegate her work and other duties within the Government to various people using the qualities and criteria they have. The minister said that appointing the leaders is a great honor that the president gives to the appointee which is in line with the constitutional powers. "We are just waiting for the official information to be brought to us because we know that they are public servants who were seconded to work in other areas, so we also have our procedures,” she said. As Ms Mhagama was addressing journalists Ulaya and Maganga were attending a meeting in Tanga under heavy police security. On Tuesday January 31, Tanga Regional Commissioner , Omary Mgumba arrived at the hotel where the meeting was taking place and assured the gathering that the meeting had all the presidential blessings. 