Dar es Salaam. The government has called for cooperation between scientists in the public and private sectors as a strategy to reduce existing gap between men and women in Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics (STEM). Deputy Minister for Education, Science and Technology Omary Kipanga, said the move will strengthen the contribution of scientific research and innovation to the country's economy for the benefit of the present and the future generation. Speaking during the commemoration of the International Day of Women and Girls in Science on Saturday, February 11, 2023, Mr Kipanga said different groups including successful women in STEM have explained the worrying gap of women in science. The worried have been outlined at a time when the fourth industrial revolution demands for increased experts in science and technology. During a live broadcast event from the capital-Dodoma, Mr Kipanga said despite the government being at the forefront in encouraging increased inclusion of women and girls in the medicine, engineering and mathematics studies, greater cooperation is needed in achieving the goal. "In order to strengthen and increase the number of women and girls in science studies, there is a need to reinforce cooperation between stakeholders in the public and private sector, parents and guardians in achieving this important goal," he said. The United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) statistics shows that of all the girls who go to universities, only 24 percent out of 45 STEM subjects. Earlier, Prof Verdiana Masanja, the first woman to get a PhD in mathematics in Tanzania, said the Tanzania Commission for Universities (TCU) 2021 statistics shows that 30 percent of the students took science courses in universities out of whom 11 percent were the women. "The world is heading towards the fourth industrial revolution, and we have only been consumers... In order for us to have these professionals, women are needed at all levels from the bottom to the top...," she said during the debate. As a mathematician, she said if the teaching of the subjects continues as it is now, Tanzania will forget manoeuvring in the fourth industrial revolution. She cited the recently announced Form Four results where a whopping 79.92 percent had totally failed the subject. "Of these, women are 85 percent and men 74 percent." "Now with this style, it is impossible for us to move forward in developing our technologies. The government must set a strategy to revive the subject of mathematics in order to enable us to excel,” she emphasized. But, Mr Kipanga insisted that there was already a way out of the situation as he called for more alliances and women in science to take lead in helping upcoming girls as well.  He noted that the establishment of the Samia Scholarship Fund was one of those efforts, adding that in the financial year 2022/23, 640 graduates with high performance in the Form Six exams have been funded… "Let me assure you that all these efforts will provide opportunities for girls in achieving their dreams in STEM and Innovation," said Mr Kipanga. "I call on parents and the community to keep encouraging and motivating girls to love these subjects, especially as we head to become an industrial economy that will provide more opportunities...," he added.