Dar es Salaam. As part of its efforts to provide air transportation services in remote rural areas, the Canadian company Solar Ship Inc has announced that it would establish a scholarship to support the training of operators in Tanzania on how to operate solar airships. The solar-powered airships could be the perfect means of transportation in isolated parts of Africa with poor road infrastructure, Solar Ship Vice President of Africa Markets Godbless Lema said. According to Mr Lema, the $1 million (Sh2.3 billion) fund will help prepare a qualified cadre of airship flight operators who will help lower death rates caused by long distances between villages and medical facilities. Mr Lema, who has been living in exile in the North American country since December 2020, is set to return to the country soon. About 70 percent of Tanzania is rural and is usually cut off from the basic infrastructure network, he noted. “That is why I am announcing the creation of a scholarship fund inviting Arctic partners to work with African communities to save lives, protect ecosystems and shift to the sustainable electric economy,” he remarked. Mr Lema who is scheduled to return to Tanzania later next month commended President Samia Suluhu Hassan’s government for taking initiatives to improve the country’s image as an investment destination of choice in Africa. “The President is doing a commendable job, of attracting investments. Creating a conducive business environment isn’t an easy job,” Mr Lema noted. Solar Ship was accorded with great cooperation by top leaders when the firm approached the government as it was seeking its legal approval that would let the firms establish its base. “This is a good signal to investors. It shows them that we are serious about the matter,” noted. “So we are starting with scholarships, while awaiting respective authorities to issue us with operational licences. Our aim is to provide low cost, carbon-free transport, and communications for areas without public infrastructure” Mr Lema was of the view that the $1 million investment was initial capital. More funds were expected, depending on the demand as his firm intends to connect people in remote areas by providing them with carbon-free electric propulsion in delivering medical supplies, food, clothing and basic necessities. The firm believes that remote areas are often cut off from the benefits of the global community due to lack of transport, communications and energy and in times of crisis, it can lead to death, pain and economic loss. Solar Ship Inc, therefore, aims at improving the quality of life in the said areas that have, up until now, been inaccessible so as to help people with their daily lives thus unleash their economic potential. “Brainpower is your greatest natural resource, so through the scholarship, we Africans and Tanzanians in particular, will eventually learn on how to master the technology for the future thus become the brokers of hope for the next generation,” he noted. On the other hand, the firm’s CEO, Jay Godsall expressed his gratitude to Mr Lema. He said: “I would like to thank Mr Lema for leading this initiative. Solar Ship has been collaborating with indigenous communities since our inception and this represents a great step in advancing our goals for investing in Indigenous brainpower.” Adding: “We’re registered (with Transport Canada) as a bush plane which is tested in minus 33 C weather, and can handle 30-kilometre-an-hour winds, which is controllable in crosswind situations.” Operating from Ontario Canada, Tanzania will be the fifth African country to be reached as other operations are based in South Africa, Uganda, Zambia and Malawi. The programme would focus on adjusting to climate change to help the operators, also known as Arctic partners work better in tropical climate. 