Dar es Salaam. Tanzania’s envoys in the CAF Champions League, Simba SC, today play their second match against Raja Casablanca at the Benjamin Mkapa Stadium in Dar es Salaam. The encounter has been scheduled to kickoff at 7pm and famous Cameroonian Blaise Yuven Ngwa will be the centre referee. Ngwa will be assisted by Elvis Noupoue Nguegoue and female referee Carine Atezambong Fomo, all from Cameroon in the expected thrilling and toughest encounter. Jeannot Franck Bito will be the fourth official. This will be the second test for Simba’s new head coach Brazilian Roberto Oliviera alias Robertinhno since he took over the team from Juma Mgunda, who is now his assistant. The match is very crucial for Msimbazi Street giants in order for them to revive their hopes of qualifying for the quarterfinals. In the first match held in Conakry, Guinea, Simba lost 1-0. This means that Simba need victory over Raja Casablanca, who sounded a warning against Uganda’s Vipers, who were defeated 5-0 in Casablanca. Raja Casablanca are among the top four teams in the Morocco Premier League known as the Botola Professional League. Raja are now placed fourth with 27 points from 16 matches. Simba, who are second in the Mainland Premiership with 53 points from 22 matches, target victory in the encounter despite facing a tough challenge. In recent statistics, Simba have been recording the best results at the Benjamin Mkapa Stadium, especially against African heavy-weights. The match is expected to be thrilling because of the statuses of the two teams. Records show that Simba have the sharpest strikers who have so far scored 54 goals while conceding 13 in the league featuring 16 teams. Simba head coach Robertinho said his players are in good shape to produce a good result in the encounter that President Samia Suluhu Hassan has promised to buy each goal to be scored by Simba players for Sh5 million. He said the players are aware of their commitment to the encounter in which they have promised to fight hard and come out with a good result. “It is one of our important matches in the competition. We need to stretch our muscles in order to win the game,” said Robertinho. He said, according to records, Raja Casablanca are a strong team that they do not underestimate. “My players are ready for the match and have promised to come out with a good result. It is a very important encounter to us because our target for now is to qualify for the knockout stage of the competition,” said Robertinho. However, Simba will miss the services of three players. They are Sadio Kanoute, who is serving one match ban imposed by CAF due to three yellow cards booking. Also, on the list are Peter Banda, who is nursing his injury sustained one day before facing Horoya AC in Conakry, Guinea and Jonas Mkude due to technical reasons.