A 38-year-old man has been arrested after he tried to discard a woman’s body at a dumping site in Mpumalanga. It is understood the suspect had to be “snatched” away from an angry mob by the Baberton police after he was reportedly caught pushing a trolley with a 19-year-old woman’s body wrapped inside a bag. Police spokesperson Brigadier Selvy Mohlala said they are investigating the incident. “The suspicious looking man caught the attention of three ladies when they reportedly saw him pushing the trolley seemed heavy for him. The ladies then stopped a certain taxi operator driving in a kombi at the traffic lights, narrated what they observed and requested him to assist in investigating.” “Upon seeing them, the bag fell from the man’s trolley. His bag was opened by one of these concerned citizens and it was a shocking surprise when the human body of a lady was found inside,” Mohlala said. ALSO READ: Police find arms cache in a warehouse, ex-German citizen nabbed Mohlala said police were called to the scene, but the situation turned ugly. “When police arrived on the scene, some community members had already started assaulting him. Be as it may, police managed to calm down the situation and the suspect was rescued from the angry mob. The man was arrested then taken to hospital to receive treatment under police guard.” “The motive as well as cause of death is yet to be established and a post-mortem will be conducted. Currently, police investigation continues to unearth this whole shocking incident,” Mohlala said. Mohlala said the provincial commissioner of the Saps in Mpumalanga, Lieutenant General Semakaleng Daphney Manamela, condemned the incident. “She said police appreciate the citizens who played a vital role in uncovering this tragedy,” Mohalala added. Meanwhile, more than 2 000 suspects were arrested in Gauteng for various crimes, including dealing in drugs and drunk driving, during the police’s weekly Operation O Kae Molao. Most of the suspects were nabbed during the tracing of wanted suspects, which is the first phase of the operation conducted by detectives. ALSO READ: Over 2 000 suspects nabbed in Gauteng for various crimes