'The Citizen Rising Woman initiative',an idea that started in a boardroom, has blossomed into a brand that celebrates women’s achievements, thereby embedding the identity of The Citizen newspaper as a brand that connects people towards a common good. The Citizen Rising Woman Initiative is turning three! Since our inception, we've encouraged the more meaningful representation of women in top business leadership roles and decision-making. Due to this success, we have decided to honor the milestones attained by various organizations that are promoting gender diversity in leadership positions. Mwananchi Communications Limited, under its business flagship brand The Citizen, in conjunction with KPMG, is calling for entries for the 2023 Rising Woman Initiative Awards (RWI Awards). The annual Rising Woman awards seek to honor organizations that have structures (training, policies, and systems) and programs in place that promote gender equality at their workplaces, have women representation in management and decision-making processes and draw women to top positions as part of efforts to ensure that more qualified women attain leadership positions. The Awards provide a landscape for organizations from various sectors to be recognized for their effort in addressing fundamental inequities that hinder women from becoming leaders.  Award categories There are two categories to fit into with the level of diversity that your organization is currently at:  RISING WOMAN AWARD ELIGIBILITY Recognizes organizations that promote gender equality at their workplaces and have substantial women representation in management and decision-making processes.  WOMAN OF THE FUTURE AWARD  ELIGIBILITY Recognizes Unique and impactful organization initiatives that advance gender balance in the workplace. Entrants must have enabling factors like HR policies, systems, and structures in place to support women from within the company to step up the ladder.  SUBMISSIONS AWARDS SUBMISSION The award submission should include the following: