DJ Fresh co-hosted the latest episode of Podcast and Chill with Sol Phenduka on Monday, standing in for MacG who couldn’t be present for the podcast due to an eye infection. Sol and the Big Dawg discussed several trending topics during the two-hour podcast, but it was the Ntiski Mazwai segment of the podcast that really caught listeners’ attention.   When asked if controversial poet and musician Ntiski Mazwai has apologised to him after sharing a list on social media in July 2020 naming him as a rapist, DJ Fresh said ‘feminazi’s’ don’t apologise. While Mazwai was one of many people who reshared the list on social media, she is one of the few people the DJ took legal action against.  During an appearance on Podcast and Chill in October 2021 DJ Fresh said he thought the issue had gone away after he published a statement rubbishing the rape allegations levelled against him in the so-called list that did the rounds on social media. He added that he was prompted to get his lawyers to intervene when Mazwai reshared the list after he issued his statement. “The arrogance carried on, so it went to court and then she lost… with costs. And I think the costs were almost two hundred grand. And it didn’t have to go there, this thing could have ended immediately,” DJ Fresh said at the time. ALSO SEE: Ntsiki Mazwai: Court orders to pay large sums of money is a ‘form of violence’ Explaining his ‘feminazi’ comment, DJ Fresh said that some people use feminism as a weapon against men instead of getting them involved in the struggle. “There is feminism and there is nothing wrong with feminism, but then there is also people who use feminism almost as a weapon. It’s almost weaponised against men versus how do we get men involved in the struggle,” DJ Fresh told Sol during the podcast. He added that he is one of the biggest feminists he knows, in terms of women deserve equal opportunities to men. “But anyway, they lost in court so Ntiski has finally paid up. She paid my lawyers, not me. It’s not like I made money,” Fresh said. He added that while he is pro-activists, you shouldn’t be reckless about it. “There is a line between doing the right thing and then there is recklessness for the sake of clout, of likes, of being controversial.” When the Ghost Lady pointed out that perhaps Ntiski and Penny Lebyane, who also had to pay DJ Fresh a sum of around R80 000, just wanted to support the cause, Fresh wanted to know at whose expense they were supporting this cause. “You can support the cause, but don’t be reckless,” he said. Fresh said that he is actually one of  Ntiski’s biggest fans just in terms of ‘I love her mind, and I love where her head is at but don’t be reckless in the name of being an activist.’ ALSO SEE: Penny Lebyane denies paying DJ Fresh any money The poet did not take Fresh’s comments on Podcast and Chill lying down and was already flooding the streets of Twitter with her thoughts early on Tuesday morning.  “The court system was exposed to me when drug addicts who lied won cases… and I was like. Oh okay… The court system was exposed to me when drug addicts who lied won cases…..and I was like.  Oh okay…— MissNtsikiMazwai (@ntsikimazwai) January 31, 2023 “For the record… I have never been sued for a lie. I have been sued for publishing a list that was already online… which is what makes my case so damn interesting. That I got sued for what YOU were saying. Lol,” she Tweeted. For the record…I have never been sued for a lie. I have been sued for publishing a list that was already online….which is what makes my case so damn interesting. That I got sued for what YOU were saying. Lol.— MissNtsikiMazwai (@ntsikimazwai) January 31, 2023 “What I know for a fact is that I’m not a liar… I know I expose uncomfortable truths… but a liar? Lol I can’t even lie with make-up and false illusions of beauty… so to expect to me have lied about such a big thing is really very fascinating for me. Is it denial?” another Tweet read. What I know for a fact is that im not a liar…….I know I expose uncomfortable truths….but a liar???? Lol I cant even lie with make up and false illusions of beauty…so to expect to me have lied about such a big thing is really very fascinating for me. Is it denial?— MissNtsikiMazwai (@ntsikimazwai) January 31, 2023 A couple of hours later, Ntsiki responded to a follower who asked why she paid DJ Fresh if she didn’t lie.  She responded: “No court established any lie about me my love… they said my platform was too big for me to post unverified information. As in I have too much influence… I’m happy to post judgements for you guys”. No court established any lie about me my love….they said my platform was too big for me to post unverified information. As in I have too much influence…im happy to post judgements for you guys ❤️ https://t.co/Io4n5vevnK— MissNtsikiMazwai (@ntsikimazwai) January 31, 2023