The South African Weather Service (SAWS) has issued an orange level 5 warning for disruptive rain in the extreme north-eastern parts of Limpopo until Sunday.  A yellow level 2 warning for disruptive rain has also been issued in the eastern parts of Limpopo and north-eastern parts of Mpumalanga until Sunday. Limpopo Today 's Weather overview: 24.2.2023 pic.twitter.com/L0nUVyy0PB— SA Weather Service (@SAWeatherServic) February 24, 2023 Extremely high fire danger conditions are expected over the northern and central parts of the Northern Cape, south-western parts of North West as well as the western parts of the Free State. Heatwave conditions, with persistently high temperatures exceeding average maximum, are expected over the Dawid Kruiper and Kai !Garib local municipalities of the Northern Cape until Sunday.  “Under these conditions, prolong exposure to the midday sun poses health risks; hence, is advisable toseek shades and keep hydrated,” warned the weather service.  Gauteng: Partly cloudy and warm but hot weather in the north. The expected UVB sunburn index: Extreme. Mpumalanga: Morning fog in places on the Highveld, otherwise partly cloudy and warm but cloudy in the east with isolated to scattered showers and thundershowers. It will be fine in the extreme west.  Limpopo: Fine and very hot in the west, otherwise partly cloudy and warm to hot with isolated to scattered showers and thundershowers but widespread in the extreme north-east, where it will be cloudy. North West: Fine and hot weather. ALSO READ: LISTEN: More heavy rain and flooding expected before autumn arrives Free State: Fine and warm to hot weather, becoming partly cloudy in the east with isolated afternoon thundershowers. Northern Cape: Morning fog patches in the southern high ground, otherwise fine and hot to very hot. It will be extremely hot in the north. The wind along the coast will be Strong south to south-easterly, reaching near gale north of Port Nolloth from the afternoon. Western Cape: Partly cloudy in the east coast, otherwise fine and warm to hot in places over the western parts.  The wind along the coast will be fresh to strong south to south-easterly, reaching near gale between Saldanha Bay and Lambert’s Bay in the afternoon, but light to moderate west to south-westerly along the south coast, becoming southerly from the afternoon. The expected UVB sunburn index: Extreme. Western half of the Eastern Cape: Cloudy with morning fog patches in place over the interior, otherwise fine and cool to warm becoming cloudy with isolated showers along the coast from evening. The wind along the coast will be moderate to fresh south westerly. ALSO READ: Torrential rains leave path of destruction through Eastern Cape Eastern half of the Eastern Cape: Cloudy and cool but partly cloudy and warm in the north-west. Isolated showers and rain are expected south of the escarpment but scattered in the east. The wind along the coast will be moderate to fresh south westerly. KwaZulu-Natal: Cloudy in the south-east, otherwise partly cloudy and warm, but hot in places in the extreme north. It will become cloudy in the afternoon with scattered showers and thundershowers, but isolated in the north-east. The wind along the coast will be Moderate southerly to south-westerly. The expected UVB sunburn index: Very High. ALSO READ: Floods: Limpopo elderly man and family spent five days between moving waters