A 6.4-magnitude earthquake was recorded Monday in Türkiye’s southern province of Hatay, the hardest hit by a February 6 tremor which left more than 41,000 dead in the country, the disaster response agency AFAD said. The quake hit the town of Defne at 8:04 pm (1704 GMT) and was strongly felt by AFP teams in Antakya and Adana, 200 kilometres (300 miles) to the north. An AFP journalist reported scenes of panic, adding that the new tremors raised clouds of dust in the devastated town. WATCH: Earthquake aftermath in Turkey The walls of badly damaged buildings crumbled while several people, apparently injured, called for help. According to AFAD, more than 6,000 aftershocks have been recorded since the 7.8-magnitude quake hit Türkiye and Syria.  President Recep Tayyip Erdogan on Monday said Türkiye would build almost 200,000 new homes in the country’s southeast region, devastated by a massive earthquake two weeks ago. A 7.8-magnitude tremor on February 6 and its aftershocks have killed more than 41,000 people in Türkiye and left millions without homes. Erdogan is keen to show his government will do everything for those impacted as he faces his biggest political test in elections planned for May. ALSO READ: Turkey earthquake: Amid the grief, humanity has showed its finer side Erdogan said around 118,000 buildings either collapsed, required urgent demolition or were severely damaged by the quake. He promised reconstruction work would begin in March to build 199,739 homes, including more than 130,000 in the worst-affected provinces of Hatay, Kahramanmaras and Malatya. “None of these buildings will be more than three or four storeys high,” he promised, after the quake caused several high-rise blocks of flats to collapse. This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. This is a modal window. This modal can be closed by pressing the Escape key or activating the close button. Experts say that while Türkiye has the right regulations, construction companies often build homes of poor quality that are unable to withstand strong tremors. “The buildings will be constructed… on sturdy ground and using the right methods,” Erdogan vowed.  He said the new homes would be built away from fault lines, “closer to the mountains”, which would “protect against problems that are caused by soft soil”. “We will start to move our citizens living in tents and container cities to their sturdy, safe and comfortable homes within a year,” Erdogan added. The state was providing shelter to around 1,6 million people in the region, according to Erdogan, speaking after a visit to affected areas in Hatay province. ALSO READ: Gift of the Givers comes to aid of Turkey and Syria after deadly earthquakes Erdogan said rescuers had saved 114,834 people from the rubble. Search and rescue efforts have ended in nine provinces, but as of Sunday continued in Hatay and Kahramanmaras. “We will build a new Antakya, Iskenderun, Arsuz,” the president said, referring to towns and cities in Hatay levelled by the quake. The city of Antakya, once home to a myriad of civilisations, lies in ruins after the quake, with centuries-old mosques and churches destroyed. This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. This is a modal window. This modal can be closed by pressing the Escape key or activating the close button.