The South African Weather Service (SAWS) has issued a yellow level 4 warning for disruptive rain resulting in Ntabankulu, Mbizana, Mbhashe, Mnquma and Great Kei Local Municipalities, as well as the OR Tambo District Municipality in the Eastern Cape, on Friday. A yellow level 2 warning for disruptive rain has also been issued over the north- western parts of the Western Bushveld, the Lowveld of Limpopo, as well as southern and eastern Mpumalanga. Eastern Cape Tomorrow 's Weather overview: 17/02/2023 pic.twitter.com/XJtTJUl1Wi— SA Weather Service (@SAWeatherServic) February 16, 2023 Extremely high fire danger conditions are expected in the Dawid Kruiper, Kai !Garib and !Kheis Local Municipalities in the Northern Cape. Gauteng: Cloudy and warm, with widespread showers and thundershowers. The expected UVB sunburn index: Low. Mpumalanga: Cloudy and cool to warm with scattered showers and thundershowers, but widespread in the south. Limpopo: Partly cloudy in the lowveld, otherwise cloudy and cool to warm with isolated to scattered shower and thundershowers, but widespread in the extreme western Bushveld. ALSO READ: Government declares national state of disaster over widespread floods North West: Cloudy and cool to warm with widespread showers and thundershowers, but scattered in the west. Free State: Morning fog patches over the central and the eastern parts, otherwise cloudy to partly and cool to warm with widespread showers and thundershowers but scattered in the west. Northern Cape: Morning fog patches along the coast, otherwise partly cloudy and warm to hot with isolated showers and thundershowers in the east and southern interior but scattered in the extremesouth-east. The wind along the coast will be light and variable, becoming moderate south-westerly. Western Cape: Partly cloudy and cool to warm with isolated to scattered showers and thundershowers, but widespread along the south coast, where it will be cloudy. It will be fine and warm to hot in the north-west where morning fog is expected. The wind along the coast will be strong southerly to south-easterly reaching near gale between Cape Point and Saldanha Bay. The expected UVB sunburn index: Extreme. Western half of the Eastern Cape: Cloudy and cool with scattered to widespread showers and rain, with thundershowers over the interior, mainly to the north of Somerset East. The wind along the coast will be moderate easterly. ALSO READ: When it rains, it pours: Citizens urged to stay safe amid devastating floods Eastern half of the Eastern Cape: Cloudy and cool weather with widespread showers and thundershowers. The wind along the coast will be moderate easterly. KwaZulu-Natal: Cool in places in the east, otherwise cloudy and warm with widespread showers and thundershowers. The wind along the coast will be moderate southerly to south-westerly, becoming south-easterly south of Mandeni towards afternoon. The expected UVB sunburn index: Low.