Based on my observation (although I stand to be corrected), the film industry in Tanzania has been facing several challenges since the passing of the late actor Steven Kanumba (8th January 1984 –7th April 2012), when the industry was at its peak, but it started going downward. Despite having a rich cultural heritage and stunning landscapes, our country, Tanzania has struggled to produce works with a broad following. However, with the arrival of Idris Elba and his plans to invest in a major film studio in the country, this could soon change the game. Idris Elba met our President, Dr Samia Suluhu Hassan and later made the announcement about his interest in investing in the film industry in our country. With a net worth of $40 million and a passion for developing the film industry in Africa, Elba intends to bring his expertise and resources to bear in revitalizing the film industry in Tanzania. The establishment of a film studio, which is of a world-class film studio in Tanzania, could make things much better because he can attract top talent from across the world and raise the standard of film production in the country. Elba’s film studio will provide a platform for young Tanzanian filmmakers to showcase their talents to a broader audience and help promote the country’s cultural heritage. Elda’s film studio can significantly impact the country’s creative economy, create jobs, and provide opportunities for local talent. Elba will need to cooperate by working closely with local writers and filmmakers to achieve the goals. By incorporating the perspectives and stories of the local community, he can help create original films representative of the Tanzania’s cultural traditions. This cooperation will bring a new level of depth and richness to the film industry in the country and help it stand out from other countries. The project has already generated a lot of excitement and interest, and the fact that a well-known actor like Elba is investing in the film industry in Tanzania is sure to bring more attention to the country and its culture. What I wish if Elba consider adapting the works of our well-known Swahili writers like Shaaban Robert and others. Elba’s film studio could help bring Tanzania’s rich cultural traditions to the world stage and promote cultural exchange and understanding between Tanzania and other countries in the world. Elba’s film studio investment has the potential to transform the film industry in Tanzania, bring the world’s attention to the country and its culture, and help create a thriving film industry that can attract top talent and promote the cultural heritage of Tanzania to the world. It will awaken the sleeping giant that Tanzania is in the world of films. The coming of Idris Elba can go a long way to attract high-profile actors, and filmmakers, which may be encouraged to follow suit, bringing more resources and investment to the country. Yes, Tanzania can have a world-class film studio in every region in the future and build the film industry in Tanzania into a significant player on the global stage. Aside from the economic benefits, this project can also help preserve and promote Tanzania’s cultural heritage. With the increasing globalization and homogenization of cultures, it is good when different countries’ unique cultural traditions and stories are preserved both for the benefit of the current and future generations. The film industry can play a huge role in this by telling the stories of the local culture and traditions to the world. By working with local writers and filmmakers, Idris Elba can help to ensure that the cultural heritage of Tanzania is passed down to future generations and shared with the world. Yes, Elda’s world class film studio will change the game.