For most young people, not knowing what they want to do in life is one of the biggest challenges. And when given a managerial role at a young age, this can sometimes lead to frustration. However, some have succeeded through hard work, dedication, learning from their mistakes and challenges, and rising above them. Meet Twaha Lema, a 26-year-old young man with a passion for entrepreneurship and a drive to innovate. Lema is the general manager at Samaki Samaki, a restaurant and club in Masaki and Mlimani City, Dar es Salaam. Asked whether it’s easy being a manager at a young age, Lema says it can be both simple and challenging. The job offers diverse responsibilities, creative opportunities, and the potential for growth. It also comes with long and irregular hours, a high-stress environment, and a heavy workload, according to Lema. In this role, he says, success depends mostly on a combination of skills, experience, and dedication. As a child, Lema wanted to become a doctor, partly because he wanted to see a patient smile after they had received treatment and care. However, the dream took a different direction along the way, leading him to the hospitality industry instead. This was after he was hospitalised for nasal polyp surgery at the age of six. According to the Mayo Clinic, nasal polyps are soft, painless, noncancerous growths on the lining of the nasal passages or sinuses. They hang down like teardrops or grapes. “Growing up, I always wanted to be a doctor. I always thought it was cool to make sure people were always well and healthy. But that changed when I had a procedure at the age of six. Since then, I hated the hospital and always prayed to never go back there, but I guess it’s impossible, right? We all get sick,” he recalls. Later on, he adds; “I started to get involved with economics and was interested in getting into the field. My four years of educational experience in South Africa changed a lot of things, including my general perspective on life. Here’s where I started getting involved with the food, beverage, and hospitality industries,” he says.” Lema had a passion for football and was a football captain in primary school. He believes the role helped shape his leadership and management skills. “I had always been passionate about football since I was young and always loved how captains went about managing everything on the field. That really inspired me in many different parts of my career and educational journey, as my leadership and management path started from the primary school level,” he explains. Speaking about his journey into the food, beverage, and hospitality industries, Twaha shares that there were a lot of challenges. As someone deeply invested in his religion, he had to navigate the complexities of these industries. “The food, beverage, and hospitality industries are quite complicated fields. They may challenge you in everything you do but what’s important is that the cause is not bad in any way,” he says. Despite the challenges, Lema was persistent and worked hard to overcome them, and he learnt from his mistakes in the process. To succeed in the industry, Twaha said he had to be innovative. He has invested heavily in research and development to ensure his products are always relevant in the market and serve a wide range of demographics. Lema says he draws his inspiration from all over the world. “Innovation has been a catalyst for where we are. We have invested enormously in research and development over the years and made sure that our products are always relevant in the market and serve a wide range of demographics.” The franchise that Lema works for has always focused on providing quality products that are above market standards. Lema says his strong team at Samaki Samaki has achieved this by investing in a twist of Tanzanian and western culture. All these are because they are well-versed and understand the needs of their customers. “Over the years, our franchises have done nothing but make sure we provide quality products that are above market standards, and this is all because of the investment in research and development,” he shares. He also attributes his success to his two sisters, Halima and Salma Lema. Both have helped him develop into the person he is today. “I have two lovely, smart, and hardworking sisters who always inspire me to be the best version of myself,” he says. He recognises the importance of educational reforms in Tanzania, as he’s observed a lack of basic skills among job seekers during his years working in the franchise. Twaha is deeply concerned about the state of education in Tanzania. According to him, a lack of basic skills is the reason why most young people struggle to find employment. “The situation is very scary. I do not know who to blame, to be honest. Parents? Government? I am not sure. However, I believe the current administration is implementing educational reforms all over the place. For the years that I have worked in this franchise, I have had the opportunity to take part in numerous interviews, and tell you what, people lack basic skills to be employed,” he explains. He further adds that the government’s current educational reforms are a step in the right direction, and he believes in the government’s efforts to improve the state of education in the country. “I have loads of faith in the current regime... the best solution would be investing in educational reforms,” he advises. Lema believes that success is doing what your heart desires while also achieving emotional, physical, and mental satisfaction. “To me, success in simple terms is basically doing what your heart desires. Having to do what satisfies your emotional, physical, and mental quests is what success is all about,” says Lema. His success story is an inspiration to many. He has shown that persistence, hard work, innovation, and adapting to local culture can lead to great success. He has also demonstrated the importance of education and the need for continuous learning and development. Lema attended Olympio Primary School and later Feza Primary School, where he completed his primary education. After completing his high school education, Lema pursued his undergraduate degree at Stellenbosch University in South Africa for a Bcom Economic course, where he learnt about the food, beverage, and hospitality industries. He then went on to pursue a Master’s degree in business administration at the University of Dar es Salaam. His passion for what he does and his desire to make a difference in his community are qualities that we can all aspire to.