Dar es Salaam. Tanzania’s envoys in the continental club championships, Young Africans (Yanga) and Simba, departed yesterday for Mali and Uganda respectively ahead of their decisive encounters. Yanga, who left the country early in the morning yesterday, will be in action on Sunday against Real Bamako in the Confederation Cup match. The game, which is to kickoff at 7pm Tanzanian time, has been scheduled to take place at Stade 26 Mars (Bamako). It will be officiated by Botswana referees, Joshua Bondo, who will be at the centre and assisted by Morakile Mogomotsi and Kitso Sibanda. The fourth official is Tshepo Gobagoba. Yanga, who are second in group D with three points, need victory in the encounter in order to continue with their search for qualification for the knockout stage of the competition. Other teams in group D are leaders US Monastir with four points and third placed TP Mazembe of the DR Congo who also have collected three points. Real Bamako are at the bottom with one point. Yanga players who left the country are goalkeepers Djigui Diarra, Metacha Mnata and Erick Johora, defenders are Djuma Shabani, Kibwana Shomari, Joyce Lomalisa, David Bryson, Mamadou Doumbia, Dickson Job, Bakari Mwamnyeto and Ibrahim Bacca. Midfielders are Yannick Bangala, Zawadi Mauya, Khalid Aucho, Salum “Sure Boy”Abubakar, Mudathir Yahya, Stephane Aziz Ki, Jesus Moloko, Dickson Ambundo, Farid Mussa and Tuisila Kisinda while strikers are Fiston Mayele, Kennedy Musonda and Clement Mzize. Meanwhile, Simba players left yesterday in the evening for Entebbe, Uganda, ahead of the CAF Champions League match against Vipers. Simba are at the bottom of Group C with no point and need victory in order to revive their hopes of qualifying for the knockout stage. The African football governing body (CAF) has named Mozambique referees to officiate the Simba encounter. They are Celso Alvacao who will be at the centre and assisted by Arssenio Marengula and Teofilo Mungoi while Simoes Guembe will be the fourth official of the encounter scheduled to kickoff at 7pm Tanzanian time at St Mary-Kitende Stadium. Simba players, who travelled to Uganda are goalkeepers Aishi Manula, Beno Kakolanya and Ally Salim, defenders are Shomari Kapombe, Israel Mwenda, Mohamed Hussein, Gadiel Michael, Kennedy Juma, Mohamed Quattara, Joash Onyango, Henock Inonga, and Erasto Nyoni. Midfielders are Sadio Kanoute, Mzamiry Yassin, Clatous Chama, Ismael Sawadogo, Saidi Ntibazonkiza, Kibu Dennis, Pape Ousmane Sakho and Peter Banda while strikers are John Bocco, Jean Baleke, Moses Phiri and Habib Kyombo.