Dar es Salaam. After losing 3-0 against Raja Casablanca of Morocco in the African Champions League groups stage duel, one of the football giant in the country, Simba, today face another acidic test of Azam FC in the NBC Premier League. The two teams meet at the Benjamin Mkapa Stadium from 7pm and Simba seek a 1-0 revenge in the first match played on October 27 last year. Azam FC goal was scored by Prince Dube. Apart from seeking revenge, Simba also target victory in order to reduce point’s gap against their traditional rivals, Young Africans (Yanga) who are at the top with 59 points from 22 matches. Simba are now placed second with 53 points from 22 matches while Azam FC are placed fourth after collecting 43 points from 22 matches they have played so far. Azam FC’s victory will leapfrog Singida Big Stars who are placed third with 44 points from 23 matches. They have trained intensively for the encounter, targeting victory over the Msimbazi Street giants. Records show that the two clubs have played 27 matches since 2012, 11 of which were won by Simba, while Azam won eight. The other eight matches ended in draws. Simba head coach Roberto Oliveira alias Robertinho said they are targeting victory in order to continue with their winning streak. “We need to do our best in the encounter, Azam FC are a strong team who are also targeting to emerge victorious. But we have also prepared our players for victory,” Robertinho said. For his part, Coach Dani Cadena said his players are in high spirits, and are ready to do their best against Simba. Cadena said that, although they are facing a challenging task against giants Simba SC, they nonetheless hope to win the encounter. “We know that Simba play their hearts out when they face us. But, we are ready for the challenge, we have committed players who are ready to do their best,” said Cadena. He added that it is not going to be an easy game, saying they are facing one of the best teams in the league and they will have to be well-focused throughout the encounter.