Sometime last year, my mother, my grandmother, and I were on our way to the far east of the region when my mother called out to my grandmother to show her something. “Mama, do you see that pink-colured building?” She rhetorically asked her mother and then continued, “They have a cafe whose waiters are people with disabilities. Their coffee is out of this world.” When I visited Neema Crafts early this year, I recalled my mother’s explanation about the café as I climbed the stairs toward Neema Crafts’ entrance. Neema Crafts runs a craft shop and a café. The ground floor is a craft shop decorated with handmade artworks of different kinds, including colourful pillows, wooden lamps and their stands, clothes of different designs, postcards, cutting boards, keyholders, door mats, and stuffed animals among others. Across the shop is the workshop, where everything that is sold in the craft shop is made. In the distance, I spotted people working with machines. On the left side of the reception are stairs leading to the café, which I had pictured in my mind an infinite number of times. It’s not my mother’s comment about this place making good coffee that got me curious but rather the servers’ part. A hundred questions ran through my mind as I tried to figure out why the owner of the place chose to hire servers with disabilities. The stairs lead to an open space that was filled with a nice scent of coffee and the sound of food being fried. There were less than ten tables in the restaurant, some of which had four chairs, while others were surrounded by sofas. The space also extends to a patio decorated with flowers growing out of wooden boxes hanging on the small metal gates overlooking a road that connects to a signature building, the clock tower located in the centre of Iringa. The front of Neema Craft’s building in Iringa town. PHOTO| COURTESY I found an empty seat on the patio and made myself at home. After I opened my laptop, I headed to the cafe’s reception to make my order. Behind the desk sat a woman in a yellow uniform, whose name I later learned was Chikuu. As I got closer to her desk, I took my mother’s statement a little too seriously because I thought she could not speak. She picked up a notebook and a pen from her table and slid them my way. I wrote my order down and went back to my seat. Customers kept flowing in, and most of them chose the patio overlooking the Iringa hills. Two waiters in kitenge trousers and caps paired with white and yellow shirts passed by and nodded my way with smiles. They did the same to the other customers. When my coffee arrived, I took small sips from an unusually big mug and observed some more as I waited for my host to arrive. The waiters mumbled some words and used sign language to communicate when it came to making orders as well as paying the bills. Some of the customers seemed familiar to the waiters because when they came into the café, they briefly high-fived them and waved at them with huge smiles. Ben Ray, one of the directors at Neema Crafts arrived after about ten minutes, and after greeting me, he told me the history of Neema Crafts. “This centre is under the Anglican Diocese of Ruaha, but it was founded by Suzie Hart in 2003. Suzie was born with a disability that caused her to spend most of her life in a wheelchair. She and her husband, Andy, had visited Tanzania a couple of times before Andy started to volunteer at the diocese as a veterinarian. Later on, the two relocated from the United Kingdom to Iringa. Over time, Suzie noticed that there were many people with disabilities who were begging on the streets,” shares Ben. One incident that motivated Suzie to think of a solution was when she witnessed a woman with a disability being chased out of a shop. While the Anglican church was at the time planning to do something for people with disabilities in the area, Suzie believed these people needed to be equipped with skills to enable them to generate their own income. “Neema Craft links the work of our hands to God’s grace and how it is transforming lives for every person who accepts it,” Ben explains. He says workshop began in 2003 with three young men who had just graduated from the school for the deaf in Mtwivila, in the region. Suzie first taught them how to make paper from recycled materials, including elephant dung and office paper. The papers made were used to make postcards, notebook covers, and photo frames. Shortly afterward, Suzie began to teach the members how to make furniture such as chairs and lamp stands, as well as how to weave. “Suzie then came up with the idea of starting a café above the craft shop that would attract tourists because she was sure if they came to buy a slice of chocolate cake and a cup of coffee, they would definitely make a glance at the shop buy a thing or two,” Ben says. When the business began, most of their customers were tourists visiting Iringa. However, when most countries faced lockdowns, they had to be creative so as to increase their sales locally. “As of now, we sell 60 percent to tourists and 40 percent to locals. The shop and the café are mostly visited by tourists from different countries visiting the region,” Ben says. A waiter at the café at Neema Craft ready to serve customers. PHOTO|LILIAN NDILWA After the business succeeded, Suzie travelled back to the UK, where she started another organisation that works with people with disabilities in the UK and around the world. Neema Crafts is now working with about 85 people with disabilities who serve in different production departments. Ally Ngeng’ena, the café’s kitchen manager joined the centre when it was being built. “I completed secondary education at Moshi Secondary School in 2007 and came back to Iringa only to find my mother sick. She needed money to pay for the hospital bills. I heard that this place was hiring people, and I joined as a builder. The job enabled me to cover my mother’s medical bills. After the national exam results were released, I asked to be retained here because I did not perform well,” Ally recalls. He was therefore retained in a different position since construction work was coming to an end. “I have been working here for seven years now,” says Ally. I approached one of the weavers, Abimelek Chaula, and as we spoke, his hands never left his weaving machine. He was making a rug using thick cream and blue coloured strings. The leader of the weaving section at the workshop, Abimelek, joined Neema Crafts 16 years ago after he heard through word of mouth that a woman was employing people with disabilities at the Anglican Church, Diocese of Ruaha. “Before Neema Crafts, I used to engage in agricultural and pastoral activities. I recall feeling hopeful when I heard about this place because I believed I would work with people who understood how hard it is to get a job as a person with a disability. It took me six months to master weaving, and my life has since changed a lot,” he explains. Through Neema Crafts, Abimelek has been able to send his three children to school as well as build his own house. Nuru Maketa, who works as a cleaner at both the café and the craft shop, joined the centre after she heard from one of her friends how supportive the centre was to people with disabilities. “Before I joined Neema Crafts, I did not have a job because no other place would hire me due to my disability. I was a stay-at-home mother despite my desire to work so that I could afford a number of bills, including paying for my daughter’s school fees, which are currently within my means,” Nuru says through a sign language interpreter, Enny Kikote, who works as the HR. Giorgos Ruossos, a regular who has his own spot known as “George’s corner,” describes Neema Crafts as a peaceful place. “It’s a quiet and peaceful place that one can work from. I started my own spot after I began to work from here consistently, a habit I still have to date,” he explains. According to the Mayor of Iringa, Ibrahim Ngwada, Neema Crafts has been able to build a supportive collective system that has seen people with disabilities enrich themselves with skills in making different crafts. “This system has helped them to become entrepreneurs who can make a living out of their knowledge even when they decide to become independent,” he says.   