Dar es Salaam. ACT-Wazalendo has pledged to build a corruption-free country full of potential, with a new constitution and better justice delivery system if voted into power. Party leader Zitto Kabwe said under an ACT-Wazalendo government, whose aim would be to create an inclusive nation, which is the party’s Vision 2035, investment in infrastructure development would be a priority. “If voted into office in 2025, we will build a nation that will invest heavily in infrastructure projects within ten years. This will be done in every sector. We will also ensure that all people live in modern houses by bringing down construction costs and mortgage,” he said in Dar es Salaam. Mr Kabwe added that the party would also provide free education from kindergarten to university. “The education we will provide will aim to equip young people with the prerequisite knowledge and skills so that they can be employed in the productive economic sectors.” Under the newly launched slogan “Taifa la Wote, Maslahi ya Wote” (A Nation for All People, In the Interests of All), Mr Kabwe pledged that the health of Tanzanians would be given greater priority. “We want to have a nation of healthy people, and we will provide better medical services. Nobody will be left out on the basis of their economic status. All will be guaranteed health insurance. “In ten years, we want to have a nation where every citizen will get clean and safe water, as well as reliable and affordable electricity. We also want this country to participate in the 2034 World Cup finals in addition to being a leading nation in sports and arts in Africa.” Mr Kabwe added that the people’s interests would be of “utmost importance”. “You have every reason to trust us based on this vision. ACT-Wazalendo in on a mission to liberate farmers and livestock keepers from poverty.” It was also noted that the party had proposed a plan that would guarantee access to farming inputs, improve the warehouse receipt system (WRS) legislation and increase agricultural budgetary allocations to ten percent of the national budget. Furthermore, ACT-Wazalendo intends to speed up the construction of a major fertiliser factory and incorporate the agriculture sector in the country’s social security system. “In fact, we want to have a people-based economy...we want to have a country with land for all and livable cities...we want to build a democratic nation with a constitution that meets the people’s needs – affordable food for all, education, social security and health insurance that benefits all,” Mr Kabwe said at the launch. The party, which will mark its ninth anniversary in May, believes that an inclusive economy is one in which the gap between the rich and the poor is drastically reduced. This goal can be achieved by addressing supply chain bottlenecks, skills shortages and under-investment, among other measures. Mr Kabwe said Tanzanian democracy “retrogressed 30 years” following the 2020 General Election after basic liberties were unconstitutionally curtailed. Meanwhile, the party yesterday kicked off its political rallies in Dar es Salaam by demanding investigations into financial misconduct as noted in the latest report compiled by the Controller and Audit General. Mr Kabwe said all implicated public servants should step down to pave the way for investigations. “For instance, the report says that at least Sh71 billion that was purportedly taken from Dar es Salaam Port to Mwanza Port actually ended up in the pockets of unscrupulous individuals but nothing has been done. We demand thorough investigations,” he said.