Dar es Salaam. The government yesterday declared its readiness to start teaching Kiswahili language in Japanese universities in order to broaden employment opportunities abroad. The permanent secretary in the ministry of Education Science and Technology, Mr Francis Michael reiterated the government’s commitment after gracing the Tanzania-Japan innovation forum held in the city. Dubbed “innovation for national growth and sustainable development,” Mr Michael directed the University of Dar es Salaam (Udsm) to prepare a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) that would be signed with the Embassy of Japan in the country. “It is the right time to start teaching Kiswahili in Japanese higher education institutions. My office is ready to facilitate initiatives that will ensure the deal is successfully sealed between the two sides,” he said. Swahili is “among the 10 most widely spoken languages in the world, with more than 200 million speakers,” according to the UN Educational, Scientific, and Cultural Organisation (Unesco). With its origin in East Africa, Swahili speakers are spread over more than 14 countries: Tanzania, Kenya, Uganda, Rwanda, Burundi, the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC), South Sudan, Somalia, Mozambique, Malawi, Zambia, Comoros, and as far as Oman and Yemen in the Middle East. Southern African countries such as South Africa and Botswana have introduced it in schools, while Namibia and others are considering doing so. Speaking during the event, Mr Michael said Tanzania needed science and technology this time than before in order to improve the country’s economy. “The forum will provide a better solution that will enable the country to come up with new ideas and policies essential for boosting and coming up with new innovations and technology,” he said. The Ambassador of Japan to Tanzania, Mr Misawa Yasushi said it was important for both countries to discuss the future of economic development. According to him, Tanzania will experience economic growth over the next 30 years thanks to ongoing initiatives to foster innovation, research, and technology. “Tanzania has been promoting science and technology in primary and secondary schools, but the private sector has a key role to enhance innovation growth in the country,” he said. The UDSM vice chancellor, Prof Bonaventure Rutinwa, said the institution was ready to dispatch Swahili experts to higher learning institutions in Japan. He said the UDSM believes that working with Japan through its International Cooperation Agency (JICA) is an opportunity to bring innovation and development to the country.