We arrived late in the evening, took a quick shower and headed to the restaurant for a late dinner. The place was the famous Seronera Wildlife Lodge in the middle of the famous, vast and picturesque Serengeti National Park. That was in June 1985, and the famous and spectacular wildebeest migration involving more than 1.5 million gnus was in season. Very early the following morning, before even having breakfast, we boarded a safari van for a park tour. We were literally wading through thousands of wildebeest and the accompanying zebras, antelopes, buffaloes, and some lions, wild dogs and hyenas, among others, before we reached and stopped at an open space. Amazing! A well laid breakfast table had been set there in the bush and we had a hearty breakfast. We were soon herded to a nearby place where a huge balloon was being lit. We boarded it and ‘viola’ we were soon air borne and watching the flat plains teeming with the rich wildlife from above. It was an amazing experience. We were literally and safely spying on the animals from the air. This episode revisited my mind the other day following the latest Chinese balloon(s) saga. This is the saga, whereby an alleged Chinese ‘spy’ balloon floated across the US territory before being shot down off the coast of South Carolina. The incident created a near - hysteria in political circles if not on the ground, breathless cable coverage, suggesting a frightening new frontier in international spycraft. This should not have been the case. These type of balloons are not new and definitely not rare. They have, for more than two centuries now, been used as part of military strategies for both domestic and international efforts to gather intelligence. They were first used in 1794 during the Napoleon French Revolutionary Wars. The French Public Safety used the balloons as part of the ‘Corps d’Aerostiers - Company of aeronauts - during the battle of Fleurus against the British, German and Dutch. France won. The US eventually caught on to the balloons as a useful spy tool and put them to use in the 1860s. It was one Thadeus Lowe, a scientist and inventor, who among others built balloons, who sold the idea to President Abraham Lincoln in 1861. They would be used by the US Balloon Corp during the American Civil War until 1863 when the the Corp was disbanded due to bureaucratic issues following change of military leadership. The balloons were then extensively used  during the WWI, by both antagonists, to spy on enemy troops. This time they were powered by engines and steered with propellers. They could also carry balloonists, machine guns and two tons of bombs. Again, the balloons were extensively used during the WWII by both the allied forces and the German military. For example, one US pilot shot down 14 different spy balloons from German forces in 1918 alone. And the Japanese forces deployed around 9000 spy balloons into the US in 1944 - 1945. Early in the ensuing Cold War the US had needed to have a peek behind the Iron Curtain - the Communist East. They again launched a series of balloon programmes under the Moby Dick and Genetrix projects. Even in Africa, the balloons were used by the British army’s Royal Engineers in Bechuanaland in 1884 and during the 2nd Boer War, 1999 - 1902 in South Africa. In a nutshell all major powers have had an extensive use of spy balloons over a period lasting more than two centuries. It is not something which suddenly started with the Chinese balloon(s) the other week. Personally, I will continue with my Serengeti Balloon Safari tours. They are the safest. After all who can dare shoot down a tourist balloon innocently spying on the millions of the Serengeti wild animals? Who?