Dar es Salaam. Developing focused leadership is one technique to boost one’s capacity to lead. When a leader commits to lifelong learning in areas that are meaningful to their work, they can readily identify the need for change in their organisation in a way that guarantees success and transparency. This became an inadvertent goal for Ms Doreen Kwayu, the Head of Operations at SportPesa, a Tanzanian betting brand. Leadership, in her perspective, is a tremendous challenge and the highest level of accountability, and it all began four years ago when she was appointed Head of Marketing at SportPesa. She places a high value on learning new things since it allows her to gain a thorough grasp of things and people. “Everything I accomplish stems from the drive I give myself, as well as my consistency in learning and willingness to attempt new things. These three things have complemented my career growth from where I began to this role I am currently serving,” she says. Ms Doreen was anxious when she was appointed Head of Marketing because it entailed captaining a large staff, but with perseverance and learning, she was able to succeed. “The person in the position had left, and the executive leadership had recommended that I take over. I initially refused, stating that I did not believe I was the right person with the right skills for that role, which was equally complex. The only thing going through my head was the potential blunders I may make on the job,” she recalls. Ms Doreen then realised that she lacked confidence and self-belief in herself, even when the executive leadership saw something in her that, at times, she did not see. “There were a lot of vulnerable moments that came with different normal work challenges that at times made me think of my former role as a brand manager. Experience is the best teacher because, with time, I learned my way around these challenges in such a manner that they strengthened my relationship with my team,” she explains. When she began representing the marketing department on the outskirts of SportPesa, there were times she felt undermined by other people who did not believe in her capabilities because she is a woman. “I am working in one of the male-dominated industries whose gender balance ratio is getting better over time, but in the past, I came across people who undermined me because of my gender aside from my knowledge and fluency in this business. “In such obvious undermining, I usually address it at that very moment to make sure that I am understood and respected by the capacity that I represent, regardless of the person I am or look like, because no one should be put in a box based on gender,” Ms Doreen details. She also explains that she has been able to tackle different barriers with the support of fellow colleagues at SportPesa as well as the executive leadership. “My team has been a part of my support system. Working alongside them has enhanced my success as well as that of the company,” Doreen says. She defines her leadership style based on her flexibility and communication. “I enjoy getting to know my team, as well as the people I work with and individuals outside of work. This has really helped me to lead the team, as I understand their strengths and weaknesses, and with that knowledge, I can pair them with the understanding that they complement and fill in each other’s strengths,” she says. Through her new role, Doreen manages over 90 people who work in different departments at SportPesa. She is also the youngest junior in the CEO apprenticeship programme in the third cohort that is run by CEO Roundtable. “I joined that programme last year, and it has networked me with executives from different organisations across the country. From there, I have been able to be mentored by well-seasoned leaders from different parts of Africa. The programme has also increased my network because, through it, I have connected to executives serving different developmental industries in the country,” she explains. Doreen also emphasises the importance of self-care for leaders because it helps to reduce stress and increase energy, which enhances their ability to accomplish even more tasks with a relaxed mind. “I am currently reading a book called What They Don’t Teach You at Harvard Business School, written by Mark McCormack, which stresses having self-care apart from work. “There are times when leaders become so engrossed in their work that they become the machine that must be maintained in order for the work to be delivered efficiently,” she explains. As for Doreen, she goes to the gym every morning and takes her family on outings every now and then. “Most people believe and celebrate when an individual is busy with work, but they don’t commemorate when this person gets to rest, even if it’s for a short while. Taking care of oneself should be a priority because it is the only way you can be effective and efficient,” she says. When advising young aspiring leaders, Doreen says that they have to be personally accountable and consistent in their lines of work, as well as build better relationships with themselves, their subordinates, and other people. “Those three are super-key attributes of a good leader,” she details.