Sustainability is never usually associated with spirit beverages. It is known as a liquor for a good splurge, gifting and special occasions. However, one whisky company, Macallan is changing and broadening our mindset of whisky and its role in society.  Having their unveiling of their Macallan Harmony Collection Rich Cacao whisky at the ever so-trendy location of Nirox Sculpture Park in Johannesburg, it was very evident to see the direction and marketing were from the aesthetics point of the view. Set in the lavish ground of Nirox, the colour scheme was neutral tones, nature which is Nirox’s core ethos, which is celebrating and protecting the environment. The Macallan Harmony Collection Rich Cacao is their first limited edition whisky in an innovative new series of single malts that aligns them with sustainable packaging.  It was explained during the tasting that the rich cacao collection was a collaboration between their whisky maker Polly Logan and one-third of the famous Roca brothers, Jordi Roca.  This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. This is a modal window. This modal can be closed by pressing the Escape key or activating the close button. Jordi and his brothers own the best restaurant in the world, El Celler de Can Roca, Spain which has three Michelin stars, is a partnership they deem their greatest.  So what is so special about this collection?  Jordi is a pastry chef with his playful approach and creativity, the whisky is more concerned with the flavour inspired by raw cacao.  The packaging of the whisky is the shavings of the rich cacao husks and is made from and inspired by the chocolate. The touch and feel of the packaging is textured, soft, recycled and is biodegradable, there is an element of luxury to it.  The look is aesthetically pleasing, there was a lot of thought into making it and it shows.  For the brand to step into this era isn’t anything new for them, the backdrop of the Macallan Estate in Scotland’s Speyside since 1824 is a sight to see.  The rich cacao collection it was clear why the dessert was the star of the menu. The cacao took centre stage as it was paired with the rich Cacao whisky.  The whisky has rich oak tones, and hints of honey, lime and ginger. It married perfectly to the dessert menu which included a chocolate marquise and a dark chocolate mousse with crispy quinoa and gooseberries. The dessert was the richest part of the menu as the starters and mains were subdued to balance out the single malt whiskeys.  ALSO READ: Whisky: No longer just your suave uncle’s favourite drink This collection not only has history, but they haven’t taken lightly the aspect of sustainability which will be great for collectors.