Dar es Salaam. The government wants Elon Musk’s broadband provider Starlink to meet the remaining requirements before it is allowed to operate in the country. Operated by SpaceX the satellite internet constellation has been providing internet connectivity using thousands of satellites in space that communicate with designated ground transceivers. It is on those grounds that those who support it believe that its presence will strengthen the country’s position in the digital economy and provide universal access to the internet and other technologies. The Tanzania Communication Regulatory Authority (TCRA) director general, Dr Jabiri Bakari, told The Citizen yesterday that like any other company, Starlink needed to follow the proper procedures before being issued with an operating licence. He said Starlink’s application involves several issues that must be met before a licence is issued. “You know, Starlink’s satellite internet involves much more issues than the way it is portrayed on social media platforms. It involves different particulars that need different requirements from the regulator in line with the type of licence being applied for,” he said without detailing what the requirements are. He said being the regulator, TCRA wants businesses to do business, and therefore, Starlink was only required to do its homework and complete the requirements to proceed with its plans. Minister for Information, Communications and Information Technology Nape Nnauye wrote earlier on his twitter page that the government had already replied to the Starlink Company and what they needed to do is make all the necessary documents intact so that other procedures could follow. “We received the applications on October 6 last year. A number of issues are pending following our last meeting on January 27, 2023,” he tweeted. Replying to Mr Musk’s tweet, he said: “You will recall that you were supposed to submit the required documents to process the application according to the laws and procedures of this land. We are waiting and ready.” In his tweet, Mr Musk said: “We would love to (operate in Tanzania). We are just waiting for the government’s approval.” The business tycoon was responding to Mr Mike Coudrey, big entrepreneur and investor in the US, who is among those who are pushing for Starlink. Mr Coudrey, who has a particular interest in Africa, especially Tanzania, tweeted: “Make Starlink available in Eastern Africa, specifically Tanzania so people can have a higher access to information and build a better future.” However, he said the lobbyists and major internet and phone providers are doing all they can to hinder Starlink’s approval because that would mean consumers would switch to the better service. “Rather than improving their own services, they will try to inhibit new availability in the market,” he expressed his worries. Efforts to get comments from mobile operators went futile, as until The Citizen went to press, the questions sent to them were not answered. Another Twitter user, Mr Curtis Martin, called on Mr Nnauye and his team to do a cost-benefit analysis to understand how they could accommodate this opportunity. “You look at it, this impacts the tax that these companies are paying with solutions in place. The tax that services people every day,” Mr Martin responded to Mr Coudrey. Mr Given Edward was also quick to tweet: “The government is very keen on pushing for technology growth. I am sure they are on top of it, working to bring this to the market.” Communications expert and media personality Maria Sarungi said in her Twitter account that they were suffering from government censorship and ridiculous internet taxes—anything to keep people in the dark. “Tanzania needs unfettered internet access so that we could have our Twitter spaces without hitches,” tweeted Ms Sarungi. On their official website, Starlink announced their plan to introduce the services between January and March this year, depending on regulatory approval. The only African nations that have so far let Starlink operate are Nigeria and Mozambique, thanks to the issuance of regulatory permits by both nations. Whether or not the Starlink will have a significant impact will depend on how quickly and affordably the business expects to deliver its service, according to economist Abel Kinyondo from the University of Dar es Salaam. With the service, both users will share the same infrastructure in space with $99 installation kits, which are available to deposit through its website. The service will have a significant impact, especially in remote areas where the infrastructure is too poor to accommodate fibre cables. Starlink’s services were set to be available in Tanzania during the current first quarter of 2023, with analysts cautiously predicting that the development would boost the digital economy. The service provides internet connectivity using thousands of satellites in space that communicate with designated ground transceivers. With the service, both users will share the same infrastructure in space with $99 installation kits, which are available to deposit through its website.