The 20th edition of Sauti za Busara festival is set to rock the walls of the Old Fort in Zanzibar (Ngome Kongwe) for three nights from 10th to 12th February. Globally acclaimed as one of Africa’s leading music festivals, this year celebrates 20 years of showcasing quality African music, a milestone that few other festivals on the Continent have achieved. Despite many challenges since its humble beginnings in 2003, Sauti za Busara has remained one of the hottest dates on the cultural calendar that revellers look forward to every year. “During the past two decades we have been blessed with a historic and unique location and an incredible line-up of artists that left everyone in attendance with lasting memories,” said Yusuf Mahmoud, the festival director. According to Mr. Mahmoud, the festival has become a career launchpad that has catapulted many up-and-coming artists from the region to international touring opportunities. “Many artists who performed on Sauti za Busara stages have gone on to be invited to other festivals across Africa and beyond, including Siti & The Band and Tausi Women’s Taarab from Zanzibar; Madalitso Band from Malawi, Sarabi from Kenya, Msafiri Zawose and Jagwa Music from Tanzania and many more,” he said. Equally, the festival always endeavoured to remain fresh and original while celebrating the rich and diverse cultures that Africa has to offer. Also Read: Blue Amber Zanzibar to the rescue of Sauti za Busara Festival Also Read:End of the road as Sauti za Busara closes its doors “The theme for this edition is Tofauti Zetu, Utajiri Wetu: Our Diversity is Our Wealth,” he continued. “When programming, we always ensure youth, women and marginalised artists are included. With unique performers representing North, South, East, West and Central Africa, as well as enjoying their favourite artists, we believe many attendees also share our excitement to discover more.“ Finally, he added: “This milestone is a testament to our exceptional team, many great artists, all the partners and sponsors, and passionate audiences who helped sustain and fuel our growth over the past 20 years.” The line –up Performing on two stages in the Old Fort during 10 – 12 February, well-known and upcoming musicians include Tiken Jah Fakoly from Ivory Coast, widely known as Africa’s greatest reggae star. His lyrics call for African unity and its economic, political and cultural resurgence. People of all races feel a deep affinity with his music and the powerful messages he never fails to deliver. BCUC, from Soweto play a different style of music ‘for the people by the people with the people’, with explosive energy and rhythms, as witnessed by all who saw their shows at Sauti za Busara 2019. This year’s singeli representative is Mzee wa Bwax, who also promises a show people will never forget. Other Tanzanian artists featured include the creative and charismatic singer-songwriter Damian Soul, Patricia Hillary, Zawose Reunion, Stone Town Rockerz, Culture Musical Club, Uwaridi Female Band, Zan Ubuntu, Zenji Boy na Wenzake, DCMA Young Stars, Waungwana Band, Supa Kalulu and Kikundi cha Idara ya Utamaduni. Other international artists include Asia Madani (Sudan/Egypt), Nasibo (Zimbabwe), Zily (Mayotte), Naxx Bitota (DRC/Canada), Atse Tewodros Project (Ethiopia/Italy), Sana Cissokho (Senegal), Majestad Negra (Puerto Rico), Obert Dube (Zimbabwe), Kaloubadya (Reunion) and more. This year’s edition also hosts Movers & Shakers (informal networking for professionals), Swahili Encounters (collaborations for local and visiting musicians), Busara Plus events at Fumba Town and other locations, and the prestigious Emerson Zanzibar Music Award, for upcoming local musicians.