Here’s your morning news update: An easy-to-read selection of our top stories. Stay up to date with The Citizen – More News, Your Way. “Apartheid was bad… but not everything was bad about apartheid.” This comment by DA MP Mlindi Nhanha during the State of the Nation Address (Sona) debate on Wednesday, led to choruses of boos at the Cape Town City Hall. Nhanha wasn’t deterred by the heckles. READ MORE: ‘Not everything was bad about apartheid’ – DA MP causes fury during Sona debate Police Minister Bheki Cele has been forced to withdraw his claims in Parliament that Democratic Alliance (DA) leader John Steenhuisen had allegedly abused his wife. Cele on Tuesday, during the debate on the State of the Nation Address (Sona) at Cape Town City Hall, alleged that Steenhuisen was abusive to his wife before he married her, which angered DA MPs and Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) leader Julius Malema, who demanded that he withdraw his claims. READ MORE: Cele forced to withdraw claims that Steenhuisen was an abuser The South African Weather Service (SAWS) is again warning of more heavy rainfall which could lead to flooding in several parts of the country, over the next couple of days. Many parts, especially over the east, have been experiencing heavy downpours since last week, leaving several people destitute and dead. READ MORE: Weather warning: Another week of downpours hold severe risk to property, people Kiernan ‘AKA’ Forbes family held a media briefing on Tuesday afternoon, after the sudden and tragic passing of the popular rapper last week. Tony Forbes – in his capacity as the family’s spokesperson – spoke to the media for the first time. The briefing was held in one of AKA’s favourite hangout spots, Rockets in Bryanston. READ MORE: WATCH: AKA’s family addresses claims of friends’ involvement in shooting After uncertainties regarding the Turkey Women’s Cup following the horrific earthquake that took place in that country and Syria, the tournament was given a green light to continue. Turkey and its neighbouring country Syria were hit by an 8.7 magnitude earthquake last week, which saw thousands of lives being lost as the numbers continue to rise as rescue teams try to help those who are still missing and trapped under collapsed buildings. READ MORE:  Banyana Banyana off to earthquake-hit Turkey