Dar es Salaam. The new Minister for Tourism and Natural Resources, Mohamed Mchengerwa, has hit the ground running, issuing five directives that would help protect forests and promoting the sustainable use of natural resources. He issued the directives as he was gracing the handing over ceremony of 45 motorcycles to the Tanzania Forest Services Agency (TFS) yesterday here in the city. The directives come only about a week after Mr Mchengerwa was appointed to the ministry of Tourism and Natural Resources from that of Culture, Arts and Sports. The first directive issued by Mchengerwa is aimed at tightening forest protection efforts, including increasing patrols in forest reserves to prevent illegal activities such as poaching, logging, and charcoal burning. The minister has also instructed forest rangers to work closely with local communities to enhance awareness of the importance of forest conservation. The second directive is focused on controlling illegal activities in forest reserves. Mchengerwa said, “Let’s put an end to illicit operations that harm natural resources and devastate protected regions.” He mentioned in particular the involvement of foreigners in illegal harvesting of trees as a matter of big threat to Tanzania’s forests. “Tighten up control, there is growing invasion of forest reserves in Coast, Morogoro and Dar es Salaam regions,” he noted. The minister also directed the TFS to improve revenue collection in forest reserves as well in addition to increased transparency and accountability. He also instructed the agency to focus on facilitating good relations with surrounding communities. “We must have constructive communication and engagement local communities in order to address their concerns and encourage their participation in conservation activities,” said Mchengerwa. The reforestation campaign should continue, Mr Mchengerwa noted so as to enhance forest cover in the country. Speaking during the event The TFS chief executive officer, Prof Dos Santos Silayo said the motorcycles are part of the agency initiative to strength commitment to conservation and sustainable management of the forest resources. “We plan to distribute 33 more in the future as a way to facilitate our officers in patrolling and securing the reserved areas against any misuse,” he said.