Dar es Salaam. The minister for Information, Communication and Technology, Mr Nape Nnauye, said yesterday that the government upholds the right to free speech and that it will do everything in its power to safeguard it. Mr Nnauye made the remarks at the unveiling of a fresh look for The Citizen, Mwananchi and Mwanaspoti websites, as well as a new style for the templates used to create social media postings.Mwananchi Communications Limited (MCL) publishes all three products. “President Samia Suluhu Hassan supports press freedom, so I am bringing her greetings. Your investment will be protected and her government promises you a pleasant working environment,” he remarked. He commended MCL for its innovations, saying the company was walking the government’s talk of digitising operations. The minister said the government’s commitment to press freedom should give MCL and other media firms peace of mind, explaining that this was the only way the nation could ensure and advance democracy and accountability. According to him, President Hassan is pleased with MCL’s commitment to the improvement of the nation’s economy and that the company not only reports the government’s shortcomings and successes but also offers a course of action. He remarked: “On behalf of the government, let me congratulate you on this innovation, which is a testament to your efforts. According to figures from the ministry, Tanzania currently has 61 million registered sim cards, up from 54 million registered the previous year. “More than 40 million individuals use their mobile phones to make purchases of various goods, but most of them also use them to obtain information. Relaunching your websites is a great move on your part.” On the other hand, the minister assured the general public, saying that the amendments proposed to the Media Service Act 2016 are aimed at bolstering freedom of speech in the country. “We do not want to meddle with media businesses; the government seeks to foster free expression; and we want media practitioners to conduct their businesses in the same way that medical doctors, lawyers, and others do,” he explained. According to him, the industry will have an independent media body by April of this year, as the five-year grace period has already expired, despite a delay in establishing such a body as stated in the Act. “When the Media Service Act 2016 was enacted, there were lots of public cries, and we couldn’t go further with the establishment of various bodies as required by the law, so we have proposed some amendments, after which the law will come into effect,” he noted. Earlier, MCL’s online content managing editor, Ms Zourha Malisa, said the launch was part of the company’s strategy to expand its reach and grow its digital platform. She further explained that MCL’s customers and various stakeholders will have the opportunity to enjoy the new look of the websites, which are now easier to use whether on smartphones, laptops, or tablets. Information, Communication and IT minister Nape Nnauye (third left), Mwananchi Communications Limited (MCL) managing director Bakari Machumu (second left), chief government spokesperson Gerson Msigwa (second right) and MCL online content managing editor Zourha Malisa applaud during the launch of the new-look and user-friendly websites of The Citizen, Mwananchi and Mwanaspoti at the MCL newsroom in Dar es Salaam yesterday. Looking on is MCL corporate affairs and marketing manager Vivian Temi. PHOTO | EDWIN MJWAHUZI According to her, the launch goes along with the unveiling of a new campaign dubbed “New Look, Better Experience” that assures the audience of an attractive look, a good arrangement of the stories, and most importantly, the quality of content that they will come across on these sites. The site comes with a mega menu at the top that guides the user into stacks of news, information, and entertainment tailored to satisfy the different tastes and preferences of the audience. 