The attractive forests, the rolling hills, and the breathtaking waterfalls define Tanga region where I was born. It remains one of the most natural and beautiful places I have ever seen. Tanga’s stunning beaches, clear turquoise waters, soft sand, a range of water sports and activities, historical sites, cultural diversity, wildlife, and very friendly people, where they say love was born, are contenders for a world-class tourist destination and trade hub. Despite Tanga’s rich history and natural beauty, the region has yet to reach its full potential as a trade hub. However, with the nearing completion of the Tanga Port’s upgrading and renovation project, Tanga has a golden opportunity to reinvent itself as a thriving trade hub. Read: Tanga Port’s upgrade nearing completion The government’s investment in the project, which is expected to rise the port’s handling capacity and enable ships to dock at the 450-metre berth, is a significant development for Tanzania’s economy. The project will improve services provided to clients from the northern and central zones and neighbouring countries, simplifying communication to the Port of Dar es Salaam. The Port of Tanga will also ease freight transportation to neighbouring countries and prepare to construct the berth for receiving oil from Uganda through the East African Crude Oil Pipeline (EACOP). However, upgrading and renovating the port is great but more must be done to market the port to potential traders and investors. Tanga’s rich history and cultural diversity provide a unique selling point that can attract traders and tourists to the region. Tanga’s history of trade dates back to the 9th C, and the convergence of Arabs, Portuguese, Germans, and British cultures has left a lasting impact on the region. Tanga was also part of the Swahili civilization, a network of city-states along the East African coast that traded with Arabia, Persia, India, and China. Tanga’s history provides a fascinating backdrop for traders and tourists alike. In addition to its history, Tanga’s natural beauty and wildlife offer a unique experience for visitors. The region’s stunning beaches, attractive forests, rolling hills, and breathtaking waterfalls make Tanga a world-class tourist destination. Marketing Tanga as a trade hub will require a concerted effort from the government and local businesses. The government can work with local companies to offer incentives for traders and investors to set up shops in Tanga by creating a welcoming and supportive environment. The value proposition of Tanga port lies in its strategic location, serving as a gateway for trade between Tanzania and neighbouring countries such as Kenya, Uganda, Rwanda, and Burundi. To capitalise on this value proposition, Tanga must reinvent itself as a trade hub and actively market the port to potential investors and traders. Tanga port is a critical domestic port in Tanzania, linking the country’s northern regions with the rest of Tanzania. It serves as a gateway for trade, connecting the local industries in the north with the national and international markets.  Tanga port is strategically located and offers a more convenient option for Kenyan businesses to access the markets in northern Tanzania and vice versa. It is also connected to Uganda by a major highway, so it provides a vital link to Ugandan businesses to access the Indian Ocean and international markets, for importing and exporting goods. Rwanda relies heavily on the Tanga port to import goods from overseas and to export its products to other countries. With its efficient services, the port plays a crucial role in supporting Rwanda’s economy by ensuring timely deliveries of goods and raw materials. For Burundi, Tanga port offers a more convenient option for Burundian businesses to import and export goods, allowing them to reach global markets. All these are opportunities linked to Tanga port, so much must be done to make it a great trade hub.