Matshepang “Tshepi” Vundla and her long-time partner, artist and Idols South Africa judge Thabo “JR” Bogopa got married over the weekend and the couple shared some of the beautiful memories of their nuptials on social media. The couple who already have two children together got engaged in August last year. They have been together for over a decade. Tshepi shared several pictures of the lavish traditional wedding. The décor included a lot of greenery adorning the venue paired with white flowers, black chairs and black cutlery. The Kulwamkelo Lomkwenyana was hosted on 28 January. For her first look, Tshepi was dressed in a traditional Xhosa dress, while JR looked dashing in a classic smart causal all white outfit. Tshepi also paired her look with Jimmy Choo shoes for her second outfit by designer Asanda Madyibi. JR opted for a more traditional look with his second outfit wearing all black with a traditional shawl. The family photos were equally stunning, but the couple’s kids, five-year-old Sibabalwe Bogopa and 10-month-old baby girl Liyema Bogopa didn’t seem too happy with the event proceedings. Tshepi said it was one of the best days of her life as she posted a video of their big day.  “Honestly one of the best days of my life. Thank you to everyone that made our day everything [and] more.” Tshepi posted on Instagram, in August 2022, that she and JR were in the process of lobola negotiations. She posed with her husband dressed in semi-traditional dress, her shoulders covered with a shawl, wearing a doek and showing off her gorgeous engagement ring. ALSO READ: Fans rejoice as JR Bogopa and Tshepi Vundla make moves towards marriage As with the wedding, many congratulations poured in for the pair from celebrities and fans. JR is a well-known music producer and rapper, especially known for his hit songs such as Make the circle bigger. He is now part of the judging panel of Idols SA alongside media personality Somizi Mhlongo and artist and actor Thembi Seete. Tshepi is well known in her own right as a celebrity stylist and personal shopper. Her career has since evolved to influencing, content creation, lifestyle content and motherhood.