Dar es Salaam. The Confederation of African Football (CAF) has named Benin’s referees to officiate the CAF Confederation Cup encounter between Tanzania’s envoys, Young Africans (Yanga) and Tunisian side US Monastir. The match, which is to take place on Sunday at Tunis’s Stade Olympique de R, will kickoff at 7pm Tanzanian time. Already Yanga have left for Tunisia ahead of the Group D encounter. According to CAF’s statement, the referees are Djindo Louis Houngnandande, who will be at the centre and assisted by Eric Ayimavo Ayamr Ulrich and Koudogbo Augustin Augustin Kougbemede. The match’s reserve referee or fourth official is Dedjinnanchi Tanisla Ahomlanto also from Benin while the match commissioner is Mohamed Abdatt Bilal from Mauritania and Somali’s Ali Mohamed Ahmed will be the referee assessor. The match’s general coordinator is Oumar Maiga from Mauritania and Imad Eddine Mahamdioua of Algeria is the security officer. Meanwhile, CAF has named Egyptian referee Amin Mohammed Omar as the centre referee of the match pitting Simba and Guinea’s giants Horoya AC. The Simba-Horoya match will be held on Saturday at the Nongo-Stade General Lansana Conte in Conakry. The group stage match of the African Champions League will kickoff at 4pm Tanzanian time. According to CAF, Mahmoud Abouelregal and Ahmed Hossam Ibrahim will be first and second assistant referees and Mahmoud Elbana also from Egypt will be the fourth official. CAF has also named Bakary Jammeh of Gambia as the match commissioner. Yanga’s 42 people contingent left the country yesterday afternoon for Tunisia ahead of the encounter while Simba are leaving the country tomorrow for Conakry. Yanga will be without their attacking midfielder Bernard Morrison who is nursing his injury and will be out of the team for two months. “We are going to play in cold weather conditions to which we need to get used. Some of us are already in Tunis to arrange the team’s accommodation and other necessities ahead of the match,” said Saada Kawemba, Yanga’s competition director.