Arusha. In their meeting in Bujumbura over the weekend, presidents of the seven East African Community (EAC) partner states called for immediate ceasefire by all the parties in the conflict. At the same time, they argued that the peace seeking process must be accompanied by dialogue “that must be enhanced by all the parties”. With fresh violence having persisted for close to a year in the eastern part of the vast country, it remains to be seen how peace will be restored this time around. A communique issued by the EAC secretariat on Saturday night was clear on unconditional ceasefire and withdrawal of foreign armed groups from the battle zone. The chiefs of the defence forces from all the partner states were required to set new timelines for the withdrawal of all foreign armed groups. Although this is not the first time such directives were made, this time around the leaders raised concern on tensions created by the crisis. “The summit reiterated its call to all parties to de-escalate tensions among countries”, the four page communique reads in part. Since M23 rebels re-entered the scene, DR Congo and Rwanda have been on a collision course with the latter accused of supporting the armed group. The extra-ordinary summit, which attracted all the heads of state, except President Salvar Kiir of South Sudan who was hosting Pope Francis in Juba, agreed to ease tensions among countries. Instead of creating constraints, all parties should use established regional, continental and international mechanisms “to resolve any disputes in the implementation of peace in eastern DR Congo” the communique further said. Burundi president Evariste Ndayishimiye hosted the extra-ordinary summit as the current Chair of the EAC Heads of State Summit, the supreme organ of the Community. Despite heart-warming encounters by the regional presidents, observers concurred that the security situation in North Kivu (the battlezone) remained volatile. “The summit took place at a time when the volatile security situation in North Kivu province, where Congolese government forces are battling the M23 rebels, is deteriorating”, said one of them. But the regional leaders observed that, notwithstanding the challenges, the security situation in eastern DR Congo was “ a regional matter” that can only be resolved through a political process by all. The Heads of State noted that the political process should be strengthened and escalated to involve all stakeholders, directing that “any violations” be reported to the EAC Chair. The EAC states that were assigned to contribute troops for peacekeeping in the troubled eastern Congo were told to immediately to deploy. In that context DR Congo was urged to facilitate without delay the deployment of troops from South Sudan and Uganda to the East African Regional Force (EARF). Tanzania and Kenya were lauded for their financial contributions to the EAC Peace Facility Fund. Rwanda and Uganda have committed themselves to contribute. The Heads of State called upon all parties to respect and implement decisions arrived at and other established instruments so that peace and security is restored in eastern DR Congo. Even though the guns have not been silenced in North Kivu, the extra-ordinary summit was well attended, a sign of commitment to peace. Bujumbura is expected to host another meeting of the EAC heads of state (the ordinary summit) in less than three weeks (February 23rd) where an assessment of what was agreed on Saturday may come to the fore.