Devotion is one of the emotional and outstanding movies that tells the story of the first U.S Navy aviator who struggled with racism and hatred during the 1950’s. The story of Jesse Brown, the U.S Navy’s first Black aviator played by (Jonathans Majors), the actor who has gained his popularity over the Marvel cinematic universe movies. Before becoming an aviator his journey was filled with hats as black man, he is not capable of doing big things in the field of the army. Director J.D. Dillard who directed the film, captures all the mental and emotional effect on racial discrimination from Jesse Brown which he experiences on his everyday struggles as black naval aviators. During his saving time from the U.S Navy, Jesse develops a new relationship with his fellow pilot during the Korean War, Tom Hudner (Glen Powell). Their combination of tense and standoffish interactions became an extraordinary loving friendship. Despite their bond on supporting each other in their training, Brown and Hudner came from different backgrounds and families. Brown was born in Mississippi from a family of sharecroppers while Hudner came from a wealthy family from Massachusetts. Apart from Hudner, Brown’s wife Daisy (Christina Jackson) represents a sense of reassurance and safety that offer Brown a happiness after spending sometimes in harsh daily life. Whatever Jesse feels alone and like he doesn’t belong to the life of pilot, Daisy always expresses her support without a limit and always advises Jesse to be safe on his quest. Before Jesse left his family to the Mediterranean Sea, off the coast of Italy in May 1950 for his flight, Daisy told Jesse that, “You’re the only person I’ve ever met that belonged in the sky, just remember you belong down here with us, too”. While the team prepared themselves for their flight test, Brown was still in the bathroom repeating racist and hateful words that people used to throw at him. Standing in front of the mirror, looking himself in the eye, tears drops from his face, he says ‘You aren’t shit, you aren’t never landing that plane,” All these hateful words come from his notebook that has been challenging him through his life and career. Though doing so, Hudner is still in the bathroom hearing Jesse talking by himself until he goes to check on him and tells him everything that he goes through his entire life. Despite his winning, Hudner was not happy how Brown decided not to follow orders to perfect his plan instead choosing his own way. Hudner didn’t want Brown to lose his life for not following order but Brown chose to not follow order because of the situation that has been challenging him in his life. In the scene, Brown narrates to Hudner that if he would choose to follow orders he would die a long time ago since he started a swimming school. So, choosing to go his own way it’s the only thing that has kept him surviving all the major circumstances in his career. In November 1950 at the East Sea off the coast of North Korea, pilots were given their first assignment to blow the bridges to keep the soldiers away from attacking. On their first mission, Brown disobeyed the order from his wingman, Hudner after sawing one of the bridges didn’t blow up so he went back to finish the job. After they successfully finished the mission, the team was needed again for the next mission helping soldiers who were in the ground surrounded by the Korean army. The Korean War was the hardest fight that the pilots have ever experienced in combat. With his wingman around, Brown and Hudner fight their enemies to the point that they succeed in eliminating among the Korean soldiers. On their way to return to the base, tragedy happened to the Brown plane after being hit which forced himself to land on the opening space. The situation led to Hudner going against the protocol and choosing to crush his plane just to save Brown’s due to their friendship relationship and Brown’s wife advice to always stay close for Brown until his last moment. Hudner was later rewarded for his bravery, but admits to Brown’s widow Daisy that he still wishes he did more to save his colleague and friend. But Daisy insisted that the only responsibility was to make sure that he stayed with Brown during his last moment and not save his life. Regardless of the flop in the box office, Devotion is still one of the most emotional movies that tells more about friendship, relationship and believing in one’s own strength. It’s a story that will bring audiences to tears while concurrently reflecting on the trials and tribulations that have resulted from racism. I rate Devotion 5 out of 10.