City of Tshwane Mayor Randall Williams has resigned from office. Williams, a councilor from the Democratic Alliance (DA), made the announcement in a statement on Monday morning.  ALSO READ: ‘Money didn’t go missing’ – Tshwane mayor as motion of no confidence looms He said his resignation would be effective from midnight on Monday.  “Today, I am formally resigning as the executive mayor of the City of Tshwane as of midnight this evening.  “To have served in this role has been one of the greatest honours of my life. There is no greater privilege I believe than to have been chosen to public office to represent my fellow citizens,” said Williams. Williams was facing a looming motion of no confidence from opposition parties following a damning report by the Auditor-General into the metro’s finances, which found irregular expenditure of R10 billion, and fruitless and wasteful expenditure being understated by over R1 billion for the 2021/2022 financial year. Williams said he resigned to ensure the stability of the multi-party coalition government led by the DA. RELATED: Auditor-general flags ‘serious irregularities’ in City of Tshwane’s finances He said he did not want the political instability that had taken place in the Johannesburg and Ekurhuleni metros to spill over into Tshwane.  “I resign today because I believe it is in the best interest for continued stability of the coalition in the City. Being executive mayor of the capital city has not been without its difficulties but I have embraced every challenge that has come my way in the execution of my duties, all of which have allowed my own personal development. “I resign today not in frustration, resentment or anger but in peace knowing that I have been given an incredible opportunity and I have fulfilled my duties to the best of my abilities.”  Meanwhile, DA leader John Steenhuisen thanked Williams for the work he did during his tenure in office. “The DA looks forward to welcoming Randall Williams into whatever role awaits him within the DA, where his experience and skill set will be a great asset,” the DA said in a statement. The party’s Gauteng leader Solly Msimanga also praised Williams for his work. “The fact that he is prepared to stand down in order to ensure stability in the metro speaks volumes of his commitment to the residents as well as the political process,” said Msimanga. Compiled by Thapelo Lekabe NOW READ: AG audit findings: DA ‘has proven incompetent to run Tshwane’