Dodoma. The United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) has welcomed Tanzania’s long tradition of welcoming refugees and advocated for continued efforts to address the needs of those fleeing conflicts. The United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, Mr Filippo Grandi, issued the statement in Dodoma during his meeting with President Samia Suluhu Hassan. Mr Grandi met the Tanzania leader at the country’s administration capital after concluding his tour of Burundi where he reiterated UNHCR’s commitment to supporting refugees to safely return from countries of asylum, and their subsequent reintegration. During the meeting, the duo discussed the progress made in creating conditions in Burundi more conducive for refugee return. Nearly 248,000 refugees and asylum-seekers, mainly from Burundi and the DRC, live in Tanzania. The East African nation hosts the largest number of Burundian refugees globally. “Our teams will continue to work closely with the two governments, partners, and donors, including development actors, to protect and find solutions for those displaced,” said Mr Grandi. He said UNHCR welcomes the recent announcement by the European Union (EU) to generously provide €40 million (Sh100 billion) over the coming years to multiple partners to support solutions in Burundi. “The funding will ensure Burundian refugees in the region, as well as those who have returned home, have the support they need to live in safety and dignity,” he said. He said the assistance will include support for protection and resilience, legal assistance, gender-based violence, prevention and response, literacy, and agricultural activities. Concluding a two-day visit in Burundi, Mr Grandi appreciated Burundi’s efforts towards stabilisation. “We live in a world with only a few windows to pursue solutions for displacement. Too often, conflicts last for many years, but I am encouraged to see Burundian refugees making the choice to return after years in exile,” he told President Evariste Ndayishimiye in the capital Bujumbura. “We all need to work to ensure that their repatriation is sustainable,” he added. Furthermore, he said the efforts from the government of Burundi and partners to assist Burundian refugees returning home are encouraging. During his visit in Burundi, Mr Grandi visited the Rugombo area, where he met some of those who have recently returned. He also witnessed UNHCR’s and partners’ support for returnees as they rebuild their lives. Given the magnitude of the needs, UNHCR has decided to strengthen its support to returnees. “However, we need development actors to help in improving access to services and livelihoods in the communities where they are returning, which also need support,” he said. “These are citizens of Burundi who need to be integrated into national development plans and initiatives,” added Mr Grandi.