Dar es Salaam. Simba SC players leave this morning for Conakry, Guinea, ahead of their Group Stage encounter of the African Champions League against Horoya AC on Saturday. However, Simba’s main sponsor, M-Bet Tanzania, which is a betting firm, has endorsed the club to use jerseys in the competition with the Visit Tanzania logo. M-Bet Tanzania Marketing Director Allen Mushi said Simba requested them to use a different logo because the African football governing body (CAF) regulations do not allow a betting firm to sponsor a club in the competition to avoid conflicts of interest. CAF is currently under the sponsorship of a betting firm, 1xBet. Mushi said they have no objection to the team’s use another logo that will be promoting Tanzania tourism outside its borders. “The M-Bet Tanzania is patriotic. After receiving Simba’s request, we had no objection because the new logo would enable Simba to promote our tourist attractions in the African Champions League and thus increasing the national income. Simba are expected to kickstart their campaign for the title on Saturday in Conakry against Horoya AC at the Nongo-Stade General Lansana Conte. The encounter is scheduled to kickoff at 4pm Tanzanian time. Other teams in group C are Raja Casablanca of Morocco and Vipers of Uganda Simba. Chief Executive Officer Imani Kajula congratulated the firm on accepting their team’s request in contrary to the sponsorship contract. Kajula said the move is patriotic and brings productivity to the country, especially considering that Tanzania is among countries in the world with the best tourist attractions. “Simba will drive the growth of the country’s economy by promoting tourism through the competition. We are true patriots,” said Kajula. Simba chairman Murtaza Mangungu said they will be using Visit Tanzania jerseys during their matches only. “We will be wearing M-Bet jerseys when we are in trip, but Visit Tanzania jerseys are special for our CAF matches,” Mr Mangungu noted He added that this is a milestone for the club due to their engagement in the special objectives of promoting the country’s tourist attractions. Tourism and Natural Resources ministry representative Bernard Mtatiro commended the club and main sponsor, M-Bet Tanzania, for taking the very important measures of promoting the tourism sector.