Dar es Salaam. The opposition ACT-Wazalendo party has come up with yet another audacious plan to rebuild the economy of the nation that ensures employment and raises per capita income to $3,300 annually. This was revealed by ACT-Wazalendo Party Leader Mr Zitto Kabwe during an event to introduce the party’s new slogan, “Taifa la Wote, Maslahi ya Wote,” which essentially means a people nation for the benefit of all. Mr Kabwe said that if his party is given the mandate to lead the country in 2025, it will do everything in its power to assist all people, regardless of political affiliation, race, religion or tribe, in order to realise its vision. As a result, the ACT Wazalendo chairman noted that the new motto encapsulates the party’s vision 2035, and that it serves as ACT-commitment Wazalendo’s to the general public that if elected to rule the country, it will establish a strong economy that gives people hope. Mr Zitto promised that his party would bring optimism to all Tanzanians, regardless of economic standing, because the ruling Chama Cha Mapinduzi (CCM) has created disparities between the rich and the poor. “This is our pledge, and we want the public to have faith in the party because we have always dealt with difficulties; we will root out corruption and strengthen the health system by providing health insurance for everybody that is connected with social security,” he said. “Indeed, our vision aims to achieve three policy objectives: a stable economy that ensures a dignified existence with a reasonable cost of living, guaranteed employment with a good wage, and the provision of social security for all,” he added. In addition to the stated targets, ACT Wazalendo will triple per capita income to $3300, from the existing yearly average of $1100. “We aim to construct a nation where its people may live happily and with hope for the future; we will build an integrated economy that will enable investment in health, infrastructure, education, agriculture, and industry.” According to him, currently, life seems to be more expensive; prices of food and other goods are high, yet unemployment is rising, and for the employees, the wage rise hasn’t kept pace with inflation. “I can assure you that we are capable of delivering on our promise; we did it when we had Kigoma municipality under our care; we have tackled several national issues though we are not in power, and there are positive changes, so our legacy speaks,” Mr Kabwe said. On the other hand, Mr Zitto has promised to reveal issues related to the rise of the cost of living, food security, and corruption late today at a political rally in Mbagala, Dar es Salaam. “We have documented several serious issues, some of which the office of the country’s Controller and Auditor General (CAG) has questioned, but they remain unsolved. We need the public’s support in dealing with such disguised matters,” he said. “We will disclose them not only during our rally in Mbagala Square but also in other rallies that will be scheduled throughout the country, beginning with Dar es Salaam, Zanzibar, the Coast region, Lindi, Mtwara, Ruvuma, Tabora, and Kigoma,” he added.