Dar es Salaam. Tanzania has remained stagnant in the global corruption ranking as experts explain the possible reasons and hopes for the next 10 years. Dubbed the Corruption Perceptions Index (CPI) 2022, the latest report by Transparency International revealed that Tanzania neither improved nor deteriorated in the level of corruption between 2012 and 2021 but remains in the group of countries with high levels of corruption. The CPI 2022 under Transparency International is a global movement with one vision: to create a world in which government, business, civil society, and the daily lives of people are free of corruption. Tanzania is among the 180 countries and territories around the world that were put on the scorecard. According to the report, the country has scored 38 out of 100 in the perceived levels of public sector corruption and is among the 124 countries that have remained stagnant since the last index in 2012. Despite concerted efforts and many hard-won gains, the CPI 2022 shows that the scale of corruption is enormous: the global average remains unchanged at 43 out of 100 for the eleventh year running, and more than two-thirds of countries (68 percent) scored below 50. In the past five years, only eight countries have significantly improved their scores, 10 countries have dropped significantly, and the rest (90 percent) have had stagnant corruption levels. The chief government spokesperson, Mr Garson Msigwa, told The Citizen that the government has continued with efforts to strengthen the fight against corruption in various service delivery institutions. “Through the Prevention and Combating of Corruption Bureau (PCCB), we have implemented phases 1, 2, and 3 of the National Anti-Corruption Strategy and Action Plan. Phase 3 was completed in July 2022,” he said. He added that, “We are currently reviving the existing strategy to come up with another phase that will have better methods and involve more citizens in preventing and fighting corruption. These strategies take place every five years.” Looking at East African states, Tanzania is the second-best in the rankings, behind Rwanda, which scored 51 out of 100. Kenya is third with 32; Uganda scored 26; and the DRC scored 20, while Burundi and South Sudan are ranked among the worst-corrupt countries, scoring 17 and 13 percent, respectively. Even so, some experts claim that from 2010 to the end of 2014, issues of fighting corruption within institutions and the public sector were not given the priority they deserved in the country. “During this time, corrupt public servants had no reason to fear because there was free-hand leadership that allowed this situation to exist,” said Dr. Jonathan Amos, a retired lecturer at the University of Dar es Salaam Business School. He said that after John Magufuli took over, his type of leadership greatly calmed open corruption, but instead, low-level or secret corruption continued. “Many times people were afraid of him due to his words and threats, but he was not quick to take strong action against the corrupt despite the fact that he hated the practice. During that time, some government institutions were laden with corruption,” he claims. “Currently, things are different, and in the next 10 years, Tanzania will have made progress due to the current leadership style,” he said. An economic analyst and a lecturer at the University of Dodoma, Ms Margret Suphian, said that since she came into power, President Samia Suluhu Hassan has clearly shown readiness to tackle corruption head-on. “If this report came out, let’s say in 2025, Tanzania would be among the best countries. I believe the report that will come out after 10 years will single out Tanzania as the most improved country,” she noted. “Severally when administering an oath of integrity to public servants, President Hassan has always warned the officials not to engage in any corruption but stick to governing laws, rules, and regulations,” notes Mr Juma Nelson, an economics PhD candidate at the University of Dar es Salaam. According to Aidan Eyakuze, executive director of Twaweza East Africa, from calling on citizens to actively report corrupt practices to endorsing reforms on media laws to initiating dialogue over the political future of the country, President Hassan has been promoting and practicing the three core values of open government: transparency, inclusion, and accountability. In March 2022, after receiving a government audit report, President Hassan signaled that, when it comes to corruption, she would follow her tough line. “I would like to assure you that I will be very firm in the collection and expenditure of public funds,” she said. “I will also stand firm against all corrupt practices,” she added.