Presidential hopeful Duduzane Zuma may soon be a single man if reports about hisimpending divorce are anything to go by. According to various media reports, the married couple have hit a rough patch and this hasbeen blamed entirely on Zuma’s political ambitions. IOL reports that his wife, Shanice Stork is ready to call it quits and file for divorce after shereportedly moved out of the marital home in March 2021. The South African also reported that Stork is currently back home and living with herparents. Shanice Stork, 29, is reportedly a business mogul who is originally from Durban. She is saidto have met Duduzane, 38, at a get-together hosted by mutual friends who set them up on adate. The couple tied the knot at the Newlands, Durban, at the New Apostolic Church inMay 2015. There are also unconfirmed reports that the couple are invested in a number of businessestogether. Zimoja reports that Stork grew tired of fighting for her husband’s attention as well as the factthat their home became the go-to meeting spot for all of Zuma’s political business. YOU MIGHT ALSO LIKE: Duduzane Zuma to take his presidential ambitions to TEDx in September “There were always comrades in and out of their house; she could no longer take it. Storkcould not stand the fact that their home was always full of strangers having meetings withDuduzane and talking politics. “This annoyed her because she loves her space,” a source told the publication. The November 2021 Local Government Elections are also cited as a very tense time for thecouple as Duduzane hit the ground running with his campaign activities, often allegedlyneglecting his wife in the process. A year prior to the November 2021 Local Government Elections, Zuma was rumoured to bein a relationship with actress and DJ, Thuli Phongolo. Speaking to podcast host MacGyver Mukwevho about the rumours, Zuma said: “Thuli is abeautiful young woman, doing her thing, and l wish her all the best. I don’t know her and lhave never met her”. On the topic of polygamy, Zuma neither confirmed or denied believing in the practice.“Yes l am a traditionalist. I don’t know what the future holds but we will see.” READ NEXT: Duduzane Zuma on practising polygamy: ‘We’ll see’ Compiled by Kaunda Selisho