The Presidency has told The Citizen, President Cyril Ramaphosa has sent messages of condolences on behalf of the South African people to Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdoğan and the Turkish people following the deadly earthquakes in Turkey and Syria. At least 4 300 people have been confirmed dead across the two countries after a swarm of strong tremors struck near the Turkey-Syria border, the largest of which measured at a massive 7.8-magnitude. Rescue efforts continued at a furious pace in Turkey and Syria as rescuers reportedly dug with their bare hands through a freezing Tuesday night hunting for survivors among the rubble of thousands of buildings felled in the violent earthquake. The initial magnitude 7.8 tremor early on Monday brought down buildings as people slept and was followed by a magnitude 7.6 earthquake hours later amid several aftershocks. This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. This is a modal window. This modal can be closed by pressing the Escape key or activating the close button. Freezing temperatures and snow have hampered rescue efforts, and more bad weather is expected to hit the region. Erdoğan has declared seven days of national mourning, and Syria has appealed to the United Nations for help following the devastating earthquakes. South Africa, the United States, Ukraine, the European Union and Russia all immediately sent condolences and offers of help. ALSO READ: Rescuers dig with bare hands searching for survivors of Turkey, Syria earthquake Presidency spokesperson Vincent Magwenya said President Ramaphosa expressed his deep sadness at the large-scale loss of life and extent of injuries on behalf of the government and people of South Africa. “The President has not spoken to President Erdoğan. We did send a message of condolence. Our nation and government are deeply saddened by the unthinkable loss of life in Türkiye and Syria.”  “Our hearts go out to families who have lost loved ones or are searching for relatives, and we wish injured survivors a full recovery,” Ramaphosa said. Magwenya said Ramaphosa also expressed his appreciation to the South African humanitarian aid organisation, Gift of the Givers, which is joining the international response in Turkey and Syria. “At this stage I’m not aware of such plans [to assist Turkey and Syria].  ALSO READ: Second KZN earthquake this weekend confirmed by authorities US President Joe Biden promised Erdoğan that the United States will send “any and all” aid needed to help recover from a devastating earthquake. Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky also offered to provide “the necessary assistance” to Turkey, whose combat drones are helping Kyiv fight the Russian invasion. Apple CEO Tim Cook also expressed his sadness on the deadly quakes and joined the aid efforts. “Sending our thoughts and condolences to the people of Turkey, Syria, and anyone affected by the devastating earthquakes. Apple will be donating to relief and recovery efforts,” Cook said. Sending our thoughts and condolences to the people of Turkey, Syria, and anyone affected by the devastating earthquakes. Apple will be donating to relief and recovery efforts.— Tim Cook (@tim_cook) February 6, 2023 Compiled by Faizel Patel with additional reporting from AFP.ALSO READ: ‘So scared’: Fear of aftershocks in debris-strewn Turkey This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. This is a modal window. This modal can be closed by pressing the Escape key or activating the close button.