Dar es Salaam. Sabra Machano is the Founder and Chief Executive Officer of the Warrior Women Foundation, a non-governmental organisation with a vision to build a strong and reliable market network to help Small and Medium Enterprises grow into stronger business entities. She founded the organisation because of her deep desire to make a difference in people’s lives. But her ambition to lead and her leadership skills started since when she was 23 years. Having studied Economics and Finance in college she got an opportunity to work at the department of External Finance in the Ministry of Finance and Planning in Zanzibar for about 10 years. From there she was promoted to become the first female managing director of the Zanzibar Social Security Fund (ZSSF) for four years. At ZSSF she managed a team of over 150 employees in Unguja and Pemba. “Climbing up the corporate ladder I learned how to manage my time and other resources effectively in order to be successful and to be able to manage the personnel well,” she noted. “I was determined to never give up and I was always looking for ways to improve and grow,” adds Sabra. The secret to her success at ZSSF was a dynamic plan that she crafted to ensure short term success and long term steady performance. The plan included intensive, ambitious business strategies, short-term goals, and long term objectives. She also spearheaded the overhaul of various under performing departments to reduce stagnation and increase growth and productivity. She also established appropriate administrative policies, services, structures, controls, and reporting systems for the efficient and effective performance. “My key achievements include increasing the fund reserves and worth by over 70 percent in a three year timespan,” she reveals. During her tenure at ZSSF all pensioners received their pensions by the 20th of each month. There were also more benefits such as the maternity medical cover which improved company visibility in products offered especially the maternity benefit, she says. Commenting on how she empowers women to be leaders in the society she says recognising the importance of gender equality and the need to create an environment that is conducive to female leadership is crucial. She leads by examples, she says, through creating a culture of respect for women and by valuing their contributions and their potential to lead. In her efforts to promote the advancement of women she advocates for easy access, by women, of the same resources and opportunities as men, including education, training, and mentorship. She says, it goes beyond highlighting instances and stories that portray gender-based discrimination in the workplace, in the community, and ensure that women have access to the same job opportunities as men. Sabra is also a public speaker focused on raising awareness about parenting, Gender Based Violence (GBV) and self-awareness as an important part of creating a better world for everyone. GBV is a serious issue that affects people of all genders, but is disproportionately experienced by women and girls, Sabra argues. When it comes to parenting, she claims, parents are the ones with the first responsibility to mould their children behaviours. Self-awareness by parents is important because it helps to create a better environment for children to grow up in a set up that allows personal growth and encourages creativity. Commenting on her roles as the Chairperson for the Binti Salha Foundation she says, as a passionate advocate for girls’ education she feels obliged to contribute her skills and experience to the Foundation’s mission of increasing access to girls’ education. “I have worked with a variety of organisations to promote and support girls’ education. I have also served on the board of several companies and non-profits and have extensive experience in fund raising, strategic planning, and organisational development,” says Sabra.  Challenges of a working mother Being a working mother is not easy. It requires juggling between multiple roles and responsibilities, all while trying to maintain a healthy work-life balance, she says. She admits that it can be difficult to find the time, resources and energy to devote to each of these task, and it can be even more difficult to be successful. With the right strategies and support, it is possible to overcome these challenges and achieve success in all areas,” she says. It takes a village, though, and Sabra has learnt to ask for help and not be ashamed of her human weaknesses.  Hindrances to success What is it that stops women from excelling to higher leadership positions? The question is tricky, according to Sabra. This is because on one hand there is significant improvement in representation of women in leadership roles, in increased access to education and employment opportunities. There is also improved economic opportunities for women as well as the general increase in the ease of access of social and political rights by women. On the other hand, she says, the potential for backlash against gender equality initiatives is huge. There is also increased pressure on women to conform to traditional gender roles, and a high potential for increased gender-based violence. To encourage women to take leadership positions, she says, a number of steps should be taken. Organisations should create a culture of support and inclusivity. This means providing a safe and welcoming environment where women can feel comfortable speaking up, taking risks, and advocating for themselves. Sabra explains that this can be done by providing mentorship and training opportunities, as well as making sure that women are represented in decision-making roles. “Organisations should ensure that their policies and practices are gender-inclusive, and that they are actively working to reduce any gender-based pay gaps”, she adds. Organisations should also provide flexible working arrangements that allow women to balance their work and family commitments, she notes. This could include offering part time or remote working options, as well as providing access to child care and other family-friendly benefits. She says, this will help to ensure that the family unit is supported and working women have the opportunity to excel both at work and at home and become thriving individuals.