While ANC chief whip Pemmy Majodina on Monday bluffed about no decision having been taken on the party’s deputy president Paul Mashatile taking over from David Mabuza as deputy president of South Africa, there is little doubt among analysts that he will be appointed.  Mashatile, together with former KwaZulu-Natal premier Sihle Zikalala, ANC second deputy secretary-general Maropene Ramokgopa and former Joburg mayor Parks Tau were sworn in as MPs on Monday. This cleared the way for Mashatile to replace Mabuza.  But Majodina said although Mashatile occupied this position within the ANC, it did not necessarily mean he would automatically become Ramaphosa’s second-in-command.  “There is no open secret. If [President Cyril Ramaphosa] decides to appoint him, well and good,” she said.  ALSO READ: Paul Mashatile sworn in as MP ahead of expected Cabinet reshuffle “If he decides not to appoint him, well and good. There is nothing written in black and white that the deputy president of the ANC automatically becomes the deputy president of the country.”  Political analyst Ntsikelelo Breakfast said Majodina did not want to let the “cat out the bag”.  “Which other position can a deputy president at the ANC hold in Cabinet except being the deputy president of the country.”  Mashatile was elected deputy president of ANC at the party’s national elective conference at Nasrec in December, with no-one else elected in contention for that position.  According to Breakfast, the new person had been sworn in, former deputy president David Mabuza had resigned, and that was it.  Breakfast said Mabuza had anticipated he may not be reappointed.  “Mabuza was smart because he saw the writing on the wall,” he said. “This is why he had to jump ship.” ALSO READ: ‘Pouncing cat’ David Mabuza has another hand to play With Ramaphosa still mum on changes expected to take place in Cabinet, political analyst André Duvenhage said it was the prerogative of the president to appoint any person in his Cabinet, including the deputy president.  “We must expect Mashatile…”  Meanwhile, the ANC’s deputy leader was reserved when asked about the deputy presidency. Info Professional politician ALSO READ: Cabinet reshuffle: President has tough task ahead