Government urged communities to be cautious and vigilant in light of the heavy rains and floods, which will continue to hit many parts of the country this week. The National Disaster Management Centre is closely monitoring the situation, in coordination with local disaster management centres and other role players. The excessive rainfall caused widespread floods in several provinces, with overflowing rivers exacerbating the situation. If anyone is traveling to St Lucia be careful the road is washing away. Between St Lucia and Mtubatuba. https://t.co/VDIvWzZp4W #ArriveAlive @ReenvalSA @afriwx @TrafficRTMC @KZNTransport pic.twitter.com/H42EyjIH4r The public is asked to pay attention to the South African Weather Service’s (Saws) updates and warnings, as they keep track of the weather conditions. Saws said persistent and heavy downpours are expected to continue over much of the country this week, with Mpumalanga and Limpopo particularly at risk.  The significant rainfall is expected to put a prolonged strain on disaster management personnel and result in floods due to high soil moisture content and overflowing river systems. Current high-resolution numerical models predict 24-hour rainfall accumulations of 100 to 200mm.  ‼️⚠️WARNING ⚠️‼️ Yellow level 2 warning for disruptive rain expected over the Southern parts of Limpopo valid for tomorrow 14 February 2023 pic.twitter.com/ldi5HUmpA4— SA Weather Service (@SAWeatherServic) February 13, 2023 ALSO READ: People unable to go to work or school as floods cause havoc in Limpopo The southern half of the Kruger National Park have been hit the hardest by the flooding, with low-water bridges and causeways, including the Crocodile bridge and the causeway at Lower Sabie camp, being flooded.  Several main roads, such as the one linking Skukuza to Lower Sabie, have been closed due to flood damage. Satellite image showing cloudy conditions with showers in the north eastern parts of South Africa. Animation courtesy of : @eumetsat pic.twitter.com/bufmL5EuAz— SA Weather Service (@SAWeatherServic) February 13, 2023 SANParks has advised guests over the weekend not to use any gravel roads and to stay on the tar. Guests are further advised not to open or travel on any roads which have been closed. VIDEO: Kruger National Park: Camps closed due to flooding Meanwhile, residents of Gauteng and the eastern parts of the North West province have been warned of a high chance of thunderstorms that may result in heavy rainfall and flooding on 15 February. Saws advise residents to stay vigilant and follow all warnings and updates from relevant authorities, and to be prepared for the potential impact of heavy rains and floods. The Disaster Management teams are on high alert across the country amid the continuing heavy rains which have already resulted in damages.When faced with threats contact 112, 10177 or 107.#Flooding#BeSafe pic.twitter.com/n1JglcEUeM— Information Resource Centre (@GCIS_IRC) February 13, 2023 In order to ensure safety, the government has issued a list of safety tips for citizens to follow: NOW READ: Patsing residents live in fear amid floods and heavy rainfall