Dodoma. The High Court has dismissed an application in which the suspended President of Tanzania Chamber of Commerce, Industry and Agriculture (TCCIA),, Mr Paul Faraj Koyi, was seeking restoration to his position. The court has upheld the decision of the TCCIA’s National Executive Council, saying the removal, four months ago, was proper and just in the eyes of the law. Mr Koyi was accused of violating TCCIA constitution, abuse of office, misuse of funds and usurped powers of the TCCIA Board of Directors. Mr Koyi had asked the court to order his reinstatement, arguing that his suspension was invalid because the move was contrary to the TCCIA constitution and guidelines for suspending a leader. The NEC held an extra-ordinary meeting here on October 31, 2022, that deliberated on charges leveled against Mr Koyi. At the end of the meeting, a statement was issued, saying the NEC has decided to suspend Mr Koyi in defence of interests of the chamber and to pave the way for a thorough investigation into the allegation directed to Mr Koyi. On November 3, 2022, NEC appointed a six-member independent probe committee chaired by Advocate Saudin Mwakaje. The team was given one month to complete the probe. The team completed its work within the given time and submitted its report to NEC. Reports say two times the committee invited Mr Koyi appear before it to hear his defence but the disgraced president never appeared. The team reported to NEC that it endorsed the evidence proving all four charges leveled against Koyi. Yesterday, Judge Fatma Khalfan dismissed Mr Koyi’s petition, saying the evidence adduced before the court proved his suspension was in order. She said the suspension was based on the TCCIA constitution and all suspension steps were observed properly. The TCIA is guided by its constitution (MEMARTS) of 2017 and directives made by its constitutional organs. One of them is the TCCIA National Executive Committee (NEC), the second supreme organ after the annual general meeting (AGM). The TCCIA AGM, to be called at a later date, will rule on Mr Koyi’s fate. 