The manhunt for the suspects who shot and killed rapper Kiernan Jarryd Forbes (AKA) and his friend Tebello ‘Tibz’ Motsoane continued on Sunday. There was still uncertainty as to when the suspects would be apprehended.  The police in KwaZulu Natal (KZN) could not say much on the case when asked whether they were confident of making any arrests soon. “There is no update as yet,” KZN police spokesperson Col. Robert Netshiunda told The Citizen in a written reply. AKA and Tibz were shot and killed at close range on Friday night in Florida Road, Durban. CCTV footage widely shared showed the last happy moments of AKA embracing and shaking hands with a friend before glancing over his shoulder down the street. The award winning rapper returned to his group before a man wearing a white sweater and hat sprints up to him, firing a gun several times. AKA falls to the ground as everyone else runs away, while the shooter than crosses the roads and flees the scene on foot. The footage also showed there was no attempted robbery and it seemed that the attackers only alleged intent was to kill AKA. ALSO READ: AKA and former manager gunned down: KZN Police investigating two cases of murder Meanwhile leaders of the African National Congress (ANC) who included party secretary general Fikile Mbalula and Gauteng chairperson Panyaza were among the people who went to pay their respects at AKA’s home. ALSO WATCH: Transport minister, Fikile Mbalula, Gauteng Premier, Panyaza Lesufi, and ANC Gauteng Provincial Secretary, TK Nciza, have arrived at AKA’s home. #sabcnews #RIPAKA pic.twitter.com/LSm3znmpsT— Mbalenhle Mthethwa (@MbalikaMthethwa) February 12, 2023 Speaking on the sidelines of the ANC Gauteng’s Provincial Executive Committee (PEC) Lekgotla on Saturday, Lesufi said serious intervention was needed considering the rate at which people are being killed in the country. ALSO WATCH: [WATCH] Gauteng ANC chairperson and Premier Panyaza Lesufi says they are saddened by AKA's passing and says the rate at which people are killed in the country needs serious intervention. #Newzroom405 pic.twitter.com/kLsG4iXTx8— Newzroom Afrika (@Newzroom405) February 11, 2023 Meanwhile attempts to get comment from the office of the Police Minister Bheki Cele were unsuccessful at the time of publishing this article. Additional reporting by Faizel Patel