With an all-electric future getting closer, Audi’s design boss has indicated that the Four Rings’ final array of internal combustion engine RS model, likely to start with the RS4, will be “mind blowing”. Although only set to ditch petrol and diesel engines worldwide by 2034, the marque has already started the transition by equipping most of its Audi Sport models with a 48-volt mild-hybrid system in addition to announcing no cylinder count below six before the EV only move in 2026. It’s product portfolio set to be headed by the RS4 Avant that will become a plug-in hybrid when the next generation A4 debuts, Marc Lichte stated that while development on an A6 e-tron has already started, its performance estate offshoot, the RS6 Avant, will become the RS6 e-tron in 2024. Reportedly already seen by senior Ingolstadt executives, Lichte told Britain’s Top Gear that “they went crazy when they saw the images and the models on the stage”. Set to ride on the Porsche developed, EV optimised PPE platform that will underpin the next generation Boxster, Cayman and the rumoured replacement for the R8, Lichte added that the RS6 e-tron will have a wide track and stance while staying true to the outgoing model’s principles of performance and practicality. ALSO READ: Plug-in hybrid then fully electric future confirmed for next Audi RS6 “The [RS6 e-tron] will have definitely a different body, that means different track, different wheel diameter,” he said in reference to the RS6’s differences from the A6 e-tron. Asked about the outgoing RS6 Avant, Lichte remarked, “I promise you, both EVs and ICE will be impressive. Especially the last-generation ICE RS models, they will be bwoah… mind blowing. You will be surprised”. Despite Lichte declining to provide any further details of the RS6 or indeed the RS6 e-tron, reports have alleged the final encore will adopt a plug-in hybrid configuration similar to the RS4 Avant, which will result in more grunt from the electrified 4.0 TFSI V8 that currently produces 441kW/800Nm. “This [hybridisation] is the way to go; in the next generation, I can tell you it will have more hybridisation. This is our way toward fully electrified cars,” Audi’s Research and Development Head, Stephan Reil, told Australia’s Wheels Magazine last year. If approved for a plug-in hybrid setup, it could lead to outputs of 515kW/850Nm UK magazine Evo reported back in 2017 as heading for a Performance version of the RS7 Sportback. Until an official announcement is made though, expect more rumours to emerge throughout the year until the RS6 e-tron’s ultimate reveal in two years’ time.