The saying ‘the apple doesn’t fall far from the tree’ couldn’t be truer for young Alakhe Mdoda who received a nomination for Nickelodeon’s Kids’ Choice Awards 2023. It seems that popular radio presenter and media personality, Anele Mdoda’s son is following in his mother’s successful footsteps, winning over fans as he trots the globe. Alakhe vacationed with his mother and his famous ‘uncles’, comedian Trevor Noah, author Khaya Dlanga, Kaya 959 DJ Szwe Dhlomo and brand and communications mogul Xolisa Dyeshana in Costa Rica over the festive season and New Year. ALSO SEE: PICS: Trevor Noah says Anele, Sizwe are his ‘ride or die’ as he shares river rafting pics While it doesn’t hurt to have a celebrity mother with a personality larger than life to help you build a brand, the 7-year-old has his own YouTube channel called ‘Alakhe’s World’. The channel, which is described as a show for kids, has about 3 800 subscribers. Over on Instagram, Alakhe has 27 500 followers. According to a statement issued by Paramount Africa, this category is dedicated to recognise some of South Africa’s favourite kidfluencers who have gained a considerable online following by creating child-cantered content on social media. The competition for this year’s nominees are quite stiff and apart from Alakhe, includes young prodigy Lethukuthula Bhengu, dancer, singer, and social media influencer Rethabile Mokgatla, social media sensation, Siba Bogopa and multiple-award winning and officially The World’s Youngest DJ, DJ Arch JNR, with Nigeria’s favourite ‘Unidentical Duo’ twin models Olianna and Olivia closing off the list. Nickelodeon’s Kids’ Choice Awards 2023 will broadcast on NickToons (DStv channel 308) on 8 March 2023 at 16:10. Fans across the globe can cast their votes across 31 categories on the official Kids’ Choice Awards website, KidsChoiceAwards.com. Alakhe isn’t the only one flying South Africa’s flag high. One of South Africa’s most popular Amapiano duo, DJ Maphorisa and Kabza de Small, more commonly called the Scorpion Kings are also on the nominees list for ‘Favourite African Star’.  NOW READ: Penny Lebyane denies paying DJ Fresh any money