Although it originally billed the GLB as a miniature version of the G-Class, a newly uncovered report from Germany has alleged that Mercedes-Benz is looking into the possibility of introducing a proper junior version of its iconic off-roader. Despite it being known that three-pointed star will reduce its model count considerably by replacing the C-and-E-Class Coupe and Cabriolets with the CLE, removing the A-and-B-Class entirely and discontinuing the CLS, it’s line-up of SUVs appears set to go the other way as evident by the claims about the “mini” G. While the full-size G-Class will soon spawn an electric version called the EQG, currently in the final stages of being tested, a smaller model, or claims, last appeared 11 years ago when Benz unveiled the design study Ener-G-Force concept in Los Angeles. ALSO READ: Mercedes-Benz sharpening the axe for more models Described at the time as a “Highway Patrol Vehicle” for 2025, rumours started swirling soon after that it could become a production reality in spite of the marque branding it as nothing but a concept. In an apparent reversal though, Mercedes-Benz CEO Ola Källenius told business publication Handelsblatt that the mini-G could happen for real reportedly around 2026 if approval is given. Given that Benz will produce nothing but electric vehicles after 2030, the small G could debut as an EV and according to a related claim by MotorTrend, ride on the MMA platform that will underpin Stuttgart’s new line-up of small models comprising the next generation GLA, GLB, CLA and CLA Shooting Brake. Should the mini-G happen, MotorTrend reports that the 800-volt architecture could result in a range of 300 miles or 483 km. While the Handelsblatt claim confirms Källenius as being a fan of the concept, no official announcement from Mercedes-Benz confirming the project has been made so far. What is known though is the automaker is plotting the arrival of a new model called the GLG in 2026, which could potentially be the mini-G’s eventual moniker.  For now, nothing else is known, but don’t be surprised if details emerge this year either in uncovered documents or spy images. NOW READ: WATCH: Mercedes-Benz G400d takes the mantle from G63 This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. This is a modal window. This modal can be closed by pressing the Escape key or activating the close button.