News update: A twist in the Louis Vuitton gifts saga could cost Police Commissioner Fannie Masemola his job; and SA braces for another cold front.  Meanwhile, the Mpumalanga premier said flood victims only have themselves to blame.  Stay up to date with The Citizen – More News, Your Way. Several police officers investigating the Louis Vuitton scandal involving General Fannie Masemola have allegedly been promised promotions in exchange for halting the investigation.  An email seen by City Press suggests the police officers would be offered higher positions within the SAPS in exchange for ending the probe.  The investigation could potentially end the careers of Masemola and other senior police officers. READ: Twist in police commissioner’s Louis Vuitton gift saga – report South Africa is bracing itself for a bout of severe weather conditions on Monday, February 20th.  According to the South African Weather Service (Saws), heavy rainfall, gale-force winds, rough seas, and an approaching cold front are expected across several provinces.  In light of the forecast, residents in several provinces have been advised to take necessary precautions to ensure their safety and protect their property from the adverse weather conditions. READ: Weather alerts issued for 3 provinces ahead of incoming cold front Mpumalanga Premier Refilwe Mtshweni-Tsipane said many communities are putting themselves at risk by settling in low-lying areas and too close to rivers and dams.  This has resulted in them being exposed to floods and the potential loss of life and assets. The premier went on to state that some residents violated spatial laws that regulate land management.  This has made them more vulnerable to the impact of flooding, which has been devastating for many. READ: ‘Flood victims have themselves to blame’ – Mpumalanga premier Sharon Bar-li, the foreign ministry deputy director general for Africa in Israel, was expelled from the African Union (AU) summit in Ethiopia.  The move was welcomed by the African National Congress (ANC) and Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF).  On Saturday, Bar-li was escorted out of the AU assembly. Israel accused Algeria and South Africa of aiding Iran to orchestrate the move. READ: ANC celebrates AU expulsion of ‘apartheid Israel’, EFF demands further action Compiled by Cheryl Kahla. Get all your news updates via The Citizen’s easy-to-read selection of top stories. Stay informed and up to date on Twitter and Facebook.  We post lifestyle and entertainment updates on Instagram, and business and finance headlines on LinkedIn.