Arusha. Newly appointed Arusha International Conference Centre (AICC) managing director Ephraim Mafuru yesterday pledged to use resources at his disposal to revitalise the facility. He said he would work with stakeholders in the convention tourism value chain as part of efforts to recapture lost market share. “It’s an open secret that the AICC has lost its niche. We must return to our glory days,” he told journalists in Arusha. The 45-year-old convention centre urgently needs an upgrade in order to remain competitive in the market. “We have to do a lot to put the AICC back to track and enable it to get more clients and contribute to the economy,” Mr Mafuru said. He added that while fingers were being pointed at the impact of Covid-19, the AICC’s competitors in neighbouring countries and elsewhere were busy upgrading their facilities. “Our neighbours have invested in modern conference facilities. We have to do the same,” Mr Mafuru said, citing Rwanda and Kenya as examples. Mr Mafuru, a seasoned executive, was recently appointed by President Samia Suluhu Hassan to head the State-owned facility. The AICC also manages the Julius Nyerere International Convention Centre (JNICC) in Dar es Salaam and dozens of residential units in Arusha. The post of AICC managing director had been vacant for one and a half years following the death of Elishilia Kaaya, who served in the position for 16 years. Mr Mafuru said although conference services were severely impacted by Covid-19, it was now time to reflect on the way forward. He pledged to work with stakeholders in the tourism value chain to promote the AICC’s motto of “Bringing the World to Tanzania”. “We will sell the AICC as a package to include all sectors in the value chain. We will not work in isolation.” Mr Mafuru hinted on plans to build new conference facilities in Dodoma, Zanzibar and elsewhere in the country. He admitted, however, that one of his major concerns was about the half-empty office block at the landmark structure. “We will sit down with the rest of the management to see how to address this.” About half of the 23,000 square metres of office space at the AICC’s main building in the heart of Arusha is unoccupied after some major tenants, notably regional and international organisations, moved out. The centre also has 650 housing units scattered in various suburbs in Arusha since the 1970s and recently constructed residential apartments. Mr Mafuru declined to comment on the ambitious project mulled by his predecessors to construct another convention centre in Arusha. The proposed Mount Kilimanjaro International Convention Centre (MKICC), which was estimated to cost $200 million, has been on the drawing board for over 15 years. However, Mr Mafuru was categorical that the AICC, a parastatal under the Foreign Affairs ministry, should operate as a business entity to generate revenue. Prior to his appointment, Mr Mafuru was head of corporate affairs at Kilombero Sugar Company Limited (KSCL), which is based in Morogoro region. He joins the AICC with a wealth of knowledge and experience in strategic communications blended with commercial advocacy.