Dar es Salaam. The European Union-funded programme has issued a grant worth €1.3 million (Sh3.2 billion) to 16 energy enterprises in Tanzania to support delivery of clean cooking solutions that benefit urban and rural residents. The firms were selected after their application for funding last September, through the EU-funded CookFund Programme which target clean cooking technologies, mainly liquefied petroleum gas (LPG), electric pressure cooker (EPC), improved charcoal stoves (ICS), briquettes and bioethanol. The Minister for Energy January Makamba, accompanied by the EU ambassador Manfredo Fanti and the UN Capital Development Fund (UNCDF) head Peter Malika, presented the cheque to the companies. Speaking during the event, Mr Makamba urged the beneficiaries of the grant to ensure that they use the money according to the objectives of the programme to benefit more Tanzanians. “It is good to know that this is not a loan but a grant that you get directly in the name of our country. So, make sure the end beneficiaries really get the intended benefits by delivering your energy products at a reasonably cheaper price so that they can get rid of the use of dirty energy,” he said. Mr Makamba said the programme guarantees access to affordable clean energy to local citizens. On his part, the EU ambassador to Tanzania Mr Manfredo Fanti urged the enterprises to demonstrate that they can sell their clean cooking systems to many more new customers with a lower price through the financial support. “The EU expects these grants to help consumers to access cheaper clean cooking systems and to encourage more people to abandon cooking techniques that are polluting and harmful for the environment,” he said. “We hope to witness a multiplier effect in the future with less and less families using firewood or charcoal for cooking, allowing them to have a healthier life, free from smoke,” he added. Expressing his appreciation to the government and the EU, the head of the (UNCDF), Mr Peter Malika highlighted the impact of solid biomass energy use for cooking in urban areas and the importance of increasing investment in the clean cooking value chain to accelerate the transition to clean cooking practices. “It is important to note that the CookFund finances capital expenditures and working capital to build internal capacity of businesses involved in the production and distribution of clean cooking energy technologies, products and solutions,” he said. “The awards announced today will cumulatively serve about 191,336 households in their respective areas and create 191 jobs over a period of three years,” he said, adding that a new call for proposals will be launched this month. The CookFund is a three-year programme funded by the European Union (EU) aiming at contributing to Tanzania’s climate change commitment by increasing the share of the population with access to sustainable cooking solutions.