Dar es Salaam. The Tanzania Wildlife Management Authority (Tawa) has detained 108 suspected trophy smugglers in total since the Canine Unit was created in 2015. This was made public over the weekend at the handover of a canine facility that can house 10 dogs, which was hosted at the Tawa Base in Mbezi Beach, Dar es Salaam. The Canine Unit was established by the ministry of Natural Resources and Tourism with the support of the African Wildlife Foundation (AWF) aimed at intensifying the anti-poaching and trophy trafficking war. The handing over of the canine facility is intended at strengthening the wildlife management agency’s capacity in combating illegal wildlife trafficking and trade that endangers the survival of wildlife and the ecosystem in Africa. Speaking during the event, Tawa’s acting conservation commissioner, Mr Mlage Kabange, said the agency introduced the canine task force to combat illegal trafficking of wildlife, noting that results have been marvelous. “Between 2015 and 2023, the task force has managed to arrest 108 suspects of trophy smuggling. They were found to be in possession of elephant tusks, wildlife meat as well as the teeth of hippopotamus, lion and those belonged to other animals,” said Mr Kabange. He said at the beginning, the unit had four sniffer or detection dogs and six handlers, noting that currently the number of dogs and handlers has increased to eight and 13, respectively. Tawa’s board chairman, Major General (rtd) Hamis Semfuko said the taskforce has been deployed in order to efficiently execute their role with the wildlife found in Tanzania, which is a large country. “Wildlife traffickers and trophy smugglers use different tactics and methods. It is difficult to identify without the use of modern technology,” he said. Furthermore, he said the AWF support handed over during the event was meaningful in the escalation of the anti-poaching and smuggling war in the country because it improved conservation activities using modern technology. For his part, AWF Vice President for Species Conservation and Science, Dr Philip Muruthi said the facility was a joint effort and commitment towards preventing wildlife crime in the region. “Canines play an important role in combating illegal wildlife trade because they have an olfactory system that is 100,000 times more sensitive than a human nose. They are also fast and can differentiate up to 30 different scents,” he said. “The AWF remains strongly committed to working with governments on the continent to enhance African stewardship of natural resources management,” he said, noting that the handover was an example of the said partnership. The Julius Nyerere International Airport (JNIA) in Dar es Salaam and the Kilimanjaro International Airport (KIA) in Kilimanjaro Region have eight detection dogs and 11 trained handlers. AWF’s canines for a conservation programme, which was launched in 2015, has been training dogs and handlers as well as providing technical support, equipment, and tools. A thorough training takes place at a special facility located in Usa River in Arusha. Before the units are deployed to airports, harbours, and border points, wildlife authority officers from partner countries are introduced to the dogs and undergo rigorous training as dog handlers.