Dar es Salaam. Simba Sports Club are today facing a must win encounter against Uganda’s Vipers FC in the CAF Champions League at the St Mary’s Kitende Stadium in Entebbe, Uganda. The match has been scheduled to kickoff at 7pm and will be officiated by Mozambican referees, according to a statement issued by the African football governing body (CAF). The referees are Celso Alvacao who will be at the centre and assisted by Arsenio Marengula and Teofilo Mungoi. Simoes Guembe will be the fourth official. The match’s centre of attraction will likely be Simba head coach Oliveira “Robertinho” Roberto, who before joining the Msimbazi Street giants, was the head coach of Vipers FC. The Reds, who are in group C, are at the bottom with no point despite having played two matches. They lost 1-0 to Horoya AC in Conakry, Guinea, before failing to shine at their home ground against Raja Casablanca, who defeated them 3-0. Arithmetically, Simba have to win all of their four remaining matches if they are to qualify for the knockout stage of the competition. So far, Raja are at the top with six points while Horoya AC are second with four points and Vipers are third with one point. The match is billed as a do or die for Simba as their failure to shine will mark their end in the knockout stage qualification. Robertinho said they know the importance of the encounter and target victory. He said it is not going to be an easy match as Vipers will also be searching for victory in order to revive their hopes. Simba travelled with 24 players ahead of the duel including goalkeepers Aishi Manula, Beno Kakolanya and Ally Salim. Defenders: Shomari Kapombe, Israel Mwenda, Mohamed Hussein, Gadiel Michael, Kennedy Juma, Mohamed Quattara, Joash Onyango, Henock Inonga, and Erasto Nyoni. Midfielders: Sadio Kanoute, Mzamiry Yassin, Clatous Chama, Ismael Sawadogo, Saidi Ntibazonkiza, Kibu Dennis, Pape Ousmane Sakho and Peter Banda. Strikers: John Bocco, Jean Baleke, Moses Phiri and Habib Kyombo. “My players know the importance of the match although we are playing away. It is a must win encounter to us. We have trained well and are optimistic about winning the game,” said Robertinho.