Dar es Salaam. Tanzania’s representatives in the CAF Confederation Cup, Young Africans (Yanga), need to collect at least six points in their remaining three matches to qualify for the quarterfinals. Yanga recorded a 1-1 draw away against Real Bamako in a Group D duel at the Stade du 26 Mars in Bamako.  Yanga’s goal was scored by Fiston Mayele in the 60th before Real Bamako equalised in njury time through Emile Kone. The result means Yanga are still in second position with four points from three matches and need to win at least two matches to reach the knockout stage. Yanga’s next will be against Real Bamako again on March 8 at Benjamin Mkapa Stadium before they face Union Sportive Monastirienne of Tunisia on March 19 at the same venue. The Jangwani Street side will play their last group match on April 2 playing against TP Mazembe of DR Congo in Lubumbashi. Mathematically, if Yanga collect six points they will reach 10 points and put one foot in the quarterfinals. Speaking yesterday, assistant coach Cedric Kaze said Sunday’s result does not reflect what they displayed in the match. “We allowed them to equalise in added time. Somehow, it is very disappointing result, but we have to accept it. We are going back to the drawing board and conduct an analysis so that we can rectify all mistakes. We are still in the battlefield and have to win all our remaining matches,” said Kaze. Meanwhile. Nigerian club Rivers United went top of their CAF Confederation Cup group on Sunday by beating DC Motema Pembe of the Democratic Republic of Congo 1-0 despite having a player red-carded. Defender Ebube Duru was sent off just before half-time after being shown a second yellow card during the Group B clash in Luanda. The match was moved to the Angolan capital because the home ground of Pembe in Kinshasa is not up to international standards. A 53rd-minute goal by Ghanaian Paul Acquah took the Port Harcourt outfit to six points, two more than ASEC Mimosas of the Ivory Coast and Diables Noirs of Congo Brazzaville.