Arusha/Dar es Salaam. Tourism stakeholders have speculated on possible reasons for the frequent changes of ministers responsible for Natural Resources and Tourism after the docket was affected by the latest reshuffle. President Samia Suluhu Hassan on Tuesday made a mini cabinet reshuffle on Tuesday in which the minister for Natural Resources and Tourism, Ms Pindi Chana swapped places with Mr Mohamed Mchengerwa from the ministry of Culture, Arts and Sports. Mr Mchengerwa takes over as minister in the docket, which is a hot position for ministers and permanent secretaries. President Hassan also appointed Dr Hassan Abbas as permanent secretary to the docket. The docket has been under 25 different ministers in different periods since independence but most of them stayed in the docket for between one and three years, while Zakhia Meghji remains on the record for leading it for eight consecutive years (from 1997 to 2005). Dr Chana was appointed to the docket last April to replace Dr Damas Ndumbaro who had been there since 2020. Speaking during the swearing-in ceremony at Dar es Salaam State House yesterday, Vice President Dr Philip Mpango said tourism was one of the tempting dockets due to its economic potential. “The ministry’s history has something to learn,” Dr Mpango said, explaining that the docket has seen one of the most frequent changes of ministers. “The tourism ministry is quite alluring. Please resist giving in to these temptations,” he said. Dr Mpango urged the new Minister to be careful with the sector, which has a significant contribution to the economy and job creation. Currently, tourism is the second largest foreign exchange earner after generating $2.56 billion in 2022, according to the Bank of Tanzania. The leading export is gold, which generated $2.8 billion in the same period. Some industry stakeholders have mentioned the following: the distribution of hunting blocks; land conflicts between the reserves and surrounding communities; misunderstandings between government officials; and the frequent reemergence of poaching as some of the possible reasons that make the tourism docket a hot seat for top officials. Other reasons include the potential of the industry to contribute to the national and international economy, hence raising conflict of interest with other nations. “There is a lot of money in the hunting block distribution, and if an official is not strict, they will definitely be corrupted to make careless decisions, and ultimately they will get fired,” said a hunting stakeholder, Mr  Joseph Mahondo. He said there have been unnecessary conflicts between the wildlife authorities and the hunting block investors or between the authorities and the surrounding communities, which are a result of the decisions made by the industry officials. “Let me give an example of sculptures that were banned from exports just to protect the interests of a few people. The tourists complained,” he added. Tanzania Association of Tour Operators (Tato) executive secretary Sirili Akko said the country’s top leadership normally has certain targets and expectations from tourism, which contributes about 17 percent of the gross domestic product (GDP) and 25 percent of foreign exchange. “As industry players, we welcome the new minister and promise him all necessary cooperation. We also appreciate the outgoing minister’s role in the sector,” he said. The chairman of the Tanzania Tour Guide Association (TTGA) Mr Emmanuel Mollel is not happy with the frequent changes of the tourism ministers, saying the tendency has had an impact on the industry’s stability. “I think most of the ministers appointed to manage tourism are very new to the industry and take time to learn the industry operations. Unfortunately, they make mistakes along the way and end up being removed before even starting the real work,” he said. “Tourism is becoming like a training college,” he added. Other analysts think politics has a significant role in influencing the frequent cabinet reshuffles. Mr Deus Kibamba, a political analyst, said there is a need to have an established system that will determine the type of ministers needed, whether through presidential or parliamentary appointment. “I was not surprised to see the changes in the ministry of natural resources and tourism because the selection in this country depends on the wishes of the president,” he said. “Currently we don’t have any procedure; the results are confusing, and this is what leads ministers to be fired or changed every time. Until now, I wonder why Minister Pindi Chana was removed and sent to another ministry, and if she didn’t perform, why she was relocated to another ministry,” he noted. Reported by Mussa Juma, Gadiosa Lamtey and Josephine Christopher