President Cyril Ramaphosa has condemned the actions of protesters who stormed the home of KwaZulu-Natal Premier Nomusa Dube-Ncube and her family. A group of more than 100 protestors gathered around the home of Dube-Ncube on Saturday night. According to media reports, the gathering had taken place outside the home while her family, including children, were inside. ALSO READ: Protestors storm KZN Premier Nomusa Dube-Ncube’s private home WATCH: More than 100 people storm the house of the KZN Premier Nomusa Dube-Ncube in Hillcrest over the weekend. The KZN government has ordered a swift investigation into threats and intimidation of her family. @TimesLIVE pic.twitter.com/CXRe3REWuj— Sakhiseni Nxumalo (@SakhiNxumalo) February 13, 2023 President Ramaphosa wished the Premier and her family well after this incident and said he condemned the act.  “We must condemn and resist any and all attempts by anyone to render our society lawless and chaotic,” he said. He also said in a statement on Monday that he welcomed the investigation especially because the Bill of Rights clearly stated that everyone has inherent dignity and the right to have their dignity respected and protected, as well as the right to be free from all forms of violence from either public or private sources. “These rights apply to each and every citizen, including elected leadership or public officials, who choose to serve our nation, and their families. “These rights must be respected even when people have legitimate issues to raise, and such issues must be raised through the channels that exist within our open democracy,” he said.  WATCH: President Cyril Ramaphosa has condemned the gathering of around 100 protesters outside the private residence of KwaZulu-Natal Premier Nomusa Dube-Ncube. He says all citizens including Dube-Ncube, had a right to dignity respect &protection. @News24 (@kaveels) pic.twitter.com/522oiiXFRf— Team News24 (@TeamNews24) February 13, 2023 Meanwhile, Transport, Community Safety and Liaison Sipho Hlomuka, has since ordered an investigation into the incident. Hlomuka, who is also the Chairperson of the Justice, Crime Prevention and Security Cluster (JCPS) said the illegal gathering by over 100 people at night outside the premier’s residence smacks of dubious intentions and posed a threat to her family members. “The Premier is a thick skinned public representative who is able to handle all matters that come with being a public representative. However, to storm a private residence and intimidate children is crossing the line,” said Hlomuka. He also stated that the South African Police Service must investigate the legality of this action and whether it has not infringed on the rights of other citizens. The ANC in KZN appointed Dube-Ncube as its premier after the resignation of Sihle Zikalala in August last year. READ MORE: ANC announces Nomusa Dube-Ncube as KZN premier candidate