Having received right-hand-drive approval two years ago, followed soon after by South African market introduction, Hyundai has announced price and spec details of the updated Palisade three-row SUV. The biggest and priciest model in the South Korean marque’s line-up, the seven or eight-seat Palisade, named after the upmarket Pacific Palisades neighbourhood in southern California, touches down after benefitting from a mid-life revision showcased at the New York International Auto Show last year. Externally, the updates comprises a flatter cascade grille with squared-off surrounds finished in black chrome and without the inner chrome studs, newly designed 20-inch alloy wheels, a rectangular lower air intake and colour-coded wheel arch cladding. In addition to the grille, the split headlight design sports what Hyundai calls a “flow-down” look in that the lower mounted L-shaped diodes are now “connected” to the main cluster by a small rectangular light embedded into the bumper. ALSO READ: Palisade: Most expensive Hyundai worth its R1m price tag? At the rear, Hyundai has restyled the bumper by incorporating not only a new lower skidplate, but horizontal reflectors as opposed to the pre-facelift model’s pod-like items. Inside, the slightly more prominent changes include the new multi-function steering wheel from the Staria, Tucson, Alcazar/Grand Creta and facelift Creta, a novel 12.3-inch digital instrument cluster, new seats, and in place of the old 10.25-inch touchscreen infotainment system – South African models having had an eight-inch display – a new 12.3-inch setup with Apple CarPlay and Android Auto. Although Hyundai has stuck with the single trim level option, the Elite, it has included a raft of new specification items aimed at improving Palisade sales from the 256 units sold since its debut in 2021. These include a heated steering wheel, a 12-speaker Infinity sound system, ventilated front seats with only the seven-seater getting cooled second-row chairs, all-around one-touch up/down electric windows, seven instead of six airbags, Adaptive Cruise Control, Blind Spot Collision Avoidance Assist, a surround-view rear camera, Forward Collision Avoidance Assist with Junction Assist, Lane Keep Assist and Lane Follow Assist. Carried over items include: Measuring 4 980 mm in overall length with its wheelbase stretching 2 900 mm, the Palisade stands 1 750 mm tall and measures 1 976 mm wide, with boot space ranging from 509-litres to 2 447-litres with the second and third rows lowered. Unlike in the United States and Australia, the normally aspirated 3.8-litre V6 petrol engine that delivers 217kW/355Nm has again been withheld for South Africa, leaving the 2.2-litre turbodiesel as the sole powerunit available. Producing an unchanged 142kW/440Nm, the mill is once again paired to a shift-by-wire button operated eight-speed automatic gearbox that sends the amount of grunt to all four corners. Claimed ground clearance is 203 mm and fuel consumption at 8.2 L/100 km. Also carried over is the Drive Terrain mode selector that prevails with seven settings; Eco, Comfort, Smart, Sport, Snow, Mud and Sand.   Priced at R1 099 900 regardless of the seat count, the Palisade’s asking price includes a seven-year/200 000 km warranty as well as a seven-year/105 000 km service plan, with buyers having a choice of five colours; White Cream, Graphite Grey, Shimmering Silver, Moonlight Blue and Abyss Black Pearl. This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. This is a modal window. This modal can be closed by pressing the Escape key or activating the close button.