Dar es Salaam. Tanzania’s envoys in the CAF Confederation Cup, Young Africans (Yanga), today play their crucial match against Real Bamako of Mali. The encounter will be officiated by Botswana referees as Joshua Bondo will be at the centre and assisted by Morakile Mogomotsi and Kitso Sibanda. The fourth official is Tshepo Gobagoba. The two teams seek victory in order to improve their chances in the group D log at the Stade 26 Mars in Bamako. Yanga are second with three points and the victory in the encounter will boost their plan of searching for the qualification ticket for the knockout stage of the competition. Other teams in group D are leaders US Monastir with four points and third placed TP Mazembe of the DR Congo, who also have collected three points. Real Bamako are at the bottom with one point. Apart from Yanga and Real Bamako, TP Mazembe who lost 3-1 to Yanga, will host US Monastir in Lubumbashi in DR Congo. The match is also crucial for the two teams in the group. Yanga head coach Nesreddine Nabi said his players are in good form and are optimistic about coming out with a good result in the match despite Real Bamako being a strong team. Nabi said they will play with determination to record a positive result in the duel. “We are ready for the clash. It is going to be tough as Real Bamako also target victory. My players know what Tanzanians need from them,” said Nabi. Arithmetically, Yanga need at least a draw in today’s away match in order to make them comfortable in the group. The players, who have travelled with the team to Bamako are goalkeepers Djigui Diarra, Metacha Mnata and Erick Johora, defenders are Djuma Shabani, Kibwana Shomari, Joyce Lomalisa, David Bryson, Mamadou Doumbia, Dickson Job, Bakari Mwamnyeto and Ibrahim Bacca. Midfielders are Yannick Bangala, Zawadi Mauya, Khalid Aucho, Salum “Sure Boy”Abubakar, Mudathir Yahya, Stephane Aziz Ki, Jesus Moloko, Dickson Ambundo, Farid Mussa and Tuisila Kisinda while strikers are Fiston Mayele, Kennedy Musonda and Clement Mzize.