Dar es Salaam. Tanzania’s envoy in the CAF Confederation Cup, Young Africans (Yanga), today face Tunisian side US Monastir in the first group D encounter at Stade Olmpique De Rin Tunis. The encounter has been scheduled to kickoff at 7pm Tanzanian time and will be officiated by Benin’s referees. The referees are Djindo Louis Houngnandande, who will be at the centre and assisted by Eric Ayimavo Ayamr Ulrich and Koudogbo Augustin Augustin Kougbemede. The match’s reserve referee or fourth official is Dedjinnanchi Tanisla Ahomlanto also from Benin while the match commissioner is Mohamed Abdatt Bilal from Mauritania and Somali’s Ali Mohamed Ahmed will be the referee assessor. The match’s general coordinator is Oumar Maiga from Mauritania and Imad Eddine Mahamdioua of Algeria is the security officer. Another group D match will see TP Mazembe hosting Real Bamako at the Stade TP Mazembe in Lubumbashi, the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC), kicking-off at 5pm Tanzanian time. Speaking on the eve of the match, Yanga head coach Nesreddine Nabi said he is confident that he will conquer the game and win over the Tunisian side. “We have the obligation of winning every match, starting today against US Monastir,” said Nabi. “So, I am looking forward to winning this match, my players will be 100 per cent committed on the pitch. I understand that we are going to face one of the best teams in the tournament, but we are the best team to sail through,” he said. Yanga will be without their attacking midfielder Bernard Morrison who is nursing his injury and will be out of the team for two months. “All technical matters ahead of the encounter have been done and we are waiting for the time. We are aware that it is going to be a tough game as US Monastir are a strong team in Tunisia. We are experienced in playing away and my players are ready for the challenge,” he said. Yanga striker Fiston Mayele said they are aware of the uphill task they are going to face in the encounter and called on all football fans to give them moral support. “We know what Tanzania’s football fans want to get from us. Previously, we came here and eliminated Club Africain in the playoff, we promise to play with determination and make all Tanzanian fans happy,” said Mayele.