At least twenty people have been killed in a head-on crash between a bus and van on N1 in Limpopo. It is understood the accident happened in Makhado (Louis Trichardt) on Monday night. ER24 paramedics said at least sixty-eight others were injured in the crash between the tour bus and cash in transit van. The bus landed in a river after rolling from the freeway bridge in Limpopo.  ER24 spokesperson Ross Campbell said the exact details surrounding the collision are unknown at this time. “ER24 paramedics were on the scene along with the Fire Department, Provincial EMS and Rescue and several other private EMS services. Several passengers are still possibly unaccounted for.” “One of the 69 passengers that were transported to hospital for various injuries, has since died. Three people were found dead by the roadside and sixteen down by the river. All were declared dead on arrival. Most of the fatalities down by the river had been trapped under the bus,” Campbell said. Campbell said police and other authorities were on scene for investigations, but the weather was delaying the work being done by emergency services.  “Heavy rains have been falling in the area,” Campbell said. Meanwhile, a three-year-old baby girl died and eleven others have suffered serious injuries in a taxi crash, also in Limpopo.  It is understood the mini-bus rolled over on the R71 in the Houtbosdorp area on Monday. Campbell said ER24 paramedics arrived on scene together with the provincial EMS, Traffic, Mopani Fire & Rescue, SAPS and another private service. “Ten adults, both male and female, as well as two small children were found outside the vehicle having self-extracted. The three-year-old girl had unfortunately suffered fatal injuries and was declared dead on arrival by ER24 on the scene.” “The eleven patients were treated for serious injuries and transported by the Provincial EMS, ER24 and the other private EMS service on scene to hospital for further care,” Campbell said. Campbell added that authorities were on scene for further investigations.   ALSO READ: Police arrest over 2 000 suspects over weekend, including 146 for GBV