At the same as revealing the updated X5 M Competition, BMW has mirrored its double act by taking the wraps off of facelift X6 M Competition. Debuting two weeks after the refreshed X6, shown alongside the reworked X5, the X6 M Competition incorporates the same exterior redress touches as the standard model and indeed the X5 M Competition, but adds a different take on the rear spoiler. As a result of the fastback coupe-style rear, the spoiler moves from the roof to the bootlid due to a pair of carbon fibre flaps being located on the outer edges of the window. ALSO READ: Updated BMW X6 bows with brawnier looks and more tech While it keeps the Matrix LED headlights, black chrome quad exhaust outlets and alloy wheels measuring 21-inches at the front and 22-inches at the rear, an option not offered on the X5 M Competition is the carbon fibre mirror caps and gloss black lower lip spoiler. Similar to the X5 though, the X6 M Competition can be specified in the same trio of new colours; Brooklyn Grey Metallic, Frozen Pure Grey Metallic and the Isle of Man Green Metallic, along with the optional Shadowline exterior pack. Inside, the revisions from the X5 M Competition have been carried over, namely the Curved Display with M specific readouts and graphics, the M Sport seats finished in Merino leather, new ambient lighting bar, the M steering wheel and the redesigned centre console with the M gear lever instead of the rotary dial. Unsurprisingly, practicality in the X6 M Competition is less than in the X5 with boot space dropping from 650-litres to 580-litres and from 1 870-litres to 1 530-litres with the 40/20/40 split rear seat folded down. Underneath, the same changes made to the X5’s chassis have been carried over the X6 as a result of the new 48-volt mild-hybrid system. This includes a revised M adaptive suspension, retuned electric power steering, improved dampers and Active M Differential, increased body rigidity and beefed-up M compound brakes. As for the engine, the 4.4-litre twin-turbo V8 produces an unchanged 460kW/750Nm, though as a result of the mild-hybrid system, delivers an additional nine kilowatts and 200 Nm for short bursts. Hooked to a brand-new eight-speed Steptronic gearbox with BMW’s xDrive all-wheel-drive system sending the amount of twist to all four corners, the X6 M Competition will get from 0-100 km/h in 3.9 seconds and hit a limited top speed of 250 km/h. With the optional M Driver’s Package, the restricted v-max rises to 290 km/h. As with the X5 M Competition though, the added electric hardware has seen the X6 M Competition’s weight rise by 90 kg to over 2.4-tons. Set to go on-sale in April in the United States and Europe with production again taking place at BMW’s global X-model plant in Spartanburg, South Carolina, South African market sales of the X6 M Competition has been confirmed from the third quarter of this year. Expect BMW South Africa to announce pricing at a later stage with a likely premium over the current pre-facelift model’s R3 028 842 asking price. This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. This is a modal window. This modal can be closed by pressing the Escape key or activating the close button.