Indebted consumers were much worse off in the fourth quarter of 2022 compared to 2016, although an increase in debt counselling inquiries shows that they are proactive in managing their debts to counter the effects of inflation and increasing interest rates.  According to the DebtBusters’ Q4 2022 Debt Index, released yesterday to coincide with the launch of National Debt Awareness Month, debt counselling inquiries increased by 53% between October and December compared to the fourth quarter of 2021 and subscriptions for online debt-management tools by 130%.  Compared to 2016, when DebtBusters first started analysing the data, consumers who applied for debt counselling in the fourth quarter had:  The DebtBusters index is a quarterly review of data provided by consumers who apply for debt counselling.  ALSO READ: Consumers paying debts despite economic pressures “This is the clearest evidence yet that consumers are facing up to their debt and taking the necessary steps to do the responsible thing and pay it back,” says the head of DebtBusters Benay Sager.  The full impact of successive interest rate increases since November 2021 and higher inflation rates are now fully evident in consumer finances, he says.  “Although it seems unexpected, activity increased as interest rates rose because consumers supplement their income with credit, using unsecured loans as a lifeline.”  The data proves this with the average loan size increasing by 31%, while 96% of consumers who applied for debt counselling in the last quarter of 2022 had a personal loan.”  It was, ironically, a series of interest rate reductions starting in the second quarter of 2020 that contributed to the pressure many consumers are experiencing now, Sager says.  “These rate cuts resulted in associated decreases in the average interest charged for bonds and vehicle finance. The attractive rates encouraged people, especially younger consumers, to buy vehicles and houses.”  However, when interest rates began to rise again in late 2021, consumers started to feel the increased burden of servicing asset-linked debt, with the average interest rate for a bond increasing from 8.3% in the fourth quarter of 2020 to 10.8% in the fourth quarter of 2022.  ALSO READ: How to start building a healthy credit history Sager says debt counselling is a tried, tested and effective tool for overindebted consumers.  “While under debt counselling, interest rates for unsecured debt can be reduced by over 90%, from an average of 23.6% to 1.9%, which allows consumers to pay back their expensive debt quicker.”  DebtBusters’ National Debt Awareness Month campaign is aimed at informing consumers about managing debt and the effect of rising interest rates.  This year’s theme is: “More consumers than ever are facing up to their debt.”