“It might be awkward because we work together,” she said, I nodded in agreement. My new acquaintance, our mutual friend, and I were perched on a rather uncomfortable bench somewhere in Mikocheni. My new acquaintance then proceeded to ask our mutual friend for her opinion. I looked off to the side suppressing my desire to scream “No, don’t do it!” I chose not to interject because I didn’t really feel like it was my place. On the ride home I kept wondering if she would agree to go out with her coworker. As I continued pondering her situation, the numerous couples I knew who married their coworkers began to come to my rememberance… including my own parents. While part of me is relieved I kept my mouth shut, another part of me is teeming with questions I should have asked. If you are thinking of dating a coworker, here are a few suggestions you may want to take into consideration: What are the company rules? It’s important to find out what your employee handbook says. Higher-ups care about interoffice romances because they need to be wary of potential sexual harassment or discrimination charges. Some employers ban interoffice dating altogether, while others would like the relationship to be disclosed to HR. Are there power dynamics that come into play? Hierarchical workplace relationships are usually frowned upon and can cause feelings of resentment from colleagues if they feel a higher-up is displaying preferential treatment towards an employee due to their romantic involvement. Is your professional reputation at risk? If gossip about your relationship affects your productivity, it can be detrimental to your professional persona, which could prevent you from furthering your climb up the corporate ladder. Are you willing to look for a new position elsewhere for the sake of the relationship? You may want to consider how pursuing a relationship with a coworker could affect your employment status. If a potential outcome leads to termination ask yourself if it is truly worth the risk. In the event of a break up can you work alongside your ex? Would you still feel comfortable working in close proximity with a former flame? I would argue that breakups don’t highlight our more professional side. Whether your heartbreak manifests in the form of deep despair or raging animosity it most likely will affect your productivity at work. If it comes to that, can the two of you agree on who will seek employment elsewhere? Romantic relationships can be complex all on their own, but adding work into the mix takes the complexity to a new level. According to a survey conducted by CareerBuilder, 14 percent of couples who met at work ended up getting married. The stats don’t really provide much encouragement in favour of the idea of coworkers pursuing a romantic relationship, however, the key to navigating this scenario just may be rooted in realism. Should you decide to date a coworker, think things through and proceed with caution.