Dar es Salaam. In an effort to combat malaria infections in the country, scientists suggest the adoption of cattle urine lure as a cost–effective outdoor–based method, for surveillance and control of mosquito vector populations. The report released last month, was co-authored by six local and foreign scientists namely Dr Nicodem Govella, Mr Godfrey Katusi, and Mr Samwely Makayula, the trio were from Ifakara Health Institute (Ihi). Others include Dr Ladslaus Mnyone from Sokoine University of Agriculture (Sua), Prof Rickard Ignell and Dr Sharon Hill both from the Swedish University of Agricultural Sciences (SLU). In their study dubbed ‘Distance from human dwellings differentially affects the efficacy of a synthetic cattle urine odour lure to trap malaria vectors,’ they advocate the use of outdoor–based traps as a complement to surveillance and control of malaria vector species. The report explained that currently; Tanzania lacks efficient surveillance and control tools of outdoor malaria vectors and that the study aimed at assessing the dose–dependent efficacy of a developed synthetic cattle urine odour to lure malaria vectors. “The efficacy of the cattle urine odour lure against wild mosquitoes was assessed through a repeated a five times five Latin square design, using two sets of five Suna traps placed at either 1.5 or 5 mitres from an adjacent human dwelling in the rural village of Sagamaganga, Tanzania,” the study reads in part. It adds: “Each trap was deployed with one of four doses of the synthetic cattle urine odour blend or a solvent control (heptane). Traps were rotated daily so that each dose and control visited each position twice over a period of 20 experimental nights.” According to the scientists, at least 1568 mosquitoes were caught, of which 783 were anophelines and 785 were culicines. Of the anophelines, 41.6 and 58.3 percent were primary and secondary vector species, respectively. The research further revealed that both unfed and fed females of the primary vector, Anopheles arabiensis, were caught close to human dwellings (1.5 metres), whereas unfed, fed, and gravid secondary vector Anopheles pharoensis females were caught at a farther distance from the dwellings (5 metres). Furthermore, the report reads: “Females of Culex pipiens (house mosquito) were caught in similar numbers irrespective of the distance from human dwellings.” “Moreover,” the scientist cautioned. Adding: “his novel integrated vector management technology must be reviewed, evaluated, and recommended by the World Health Organization prior to being adopted by national programmes.” Malaria remains one of the most serious public health problems, moreover, through the Ifakara Health Institute, Tanzania is currently implementing a five-year malaria surveillance activity (TMSA) between August 2022 to August 2027 aimed at reducing malaria burden and moving towards elimination of the disease The new five-year anti-malaria programme to combat malaria infections, both in Tanzania mainland and in Zanzibar, targets destruction of breeding points for mosquitoes, the vectors that help malaria parasites to spread. According to last year’s world malaria report, it is estimated Tanzania is among the ten countries with the highest malaria cases and deaths, accounting for 3 percent of the global cases and 4.1 percent of global deaths of which nearly 80 percent of all malaria deaths were among children under the age of five. The principal vectors of malaria in the country are mosquitoes of the Anopheles gambiae complex and funestus.