 It looks like I’ll never stop moaning about our scribblers’ careless use of the adjective/pronoun “other.” Now in a story appearing on Page 8 of the Friday, February 17 edition of the tabloid associated with this columnist, entitled, ‘Glass product set for continental free market’, the scribbler writes therein: “Last year, Tanzania was one of the EIGHT countries that were selected for the pilot project…OTHER seven countries are Ghana, Kenya, Cameroon, Rwanda, Egypt, Mauritius, and Tunisia.” When you say “other seven”, the inference is that these are independent from the list of eight, something that isn’t true. A definite article was essential before “other” –the OTHER SEVEN were…” But then, by using the adjective SEVEN, we would be entertaining the redundancy—providing unnecessary information. Just say: The OTHERS are... then proceed to mention the seven countries! On Page 14, there’s an article that reviews a feature movie based on a war time friendship story of US pilots Jesse Brown and Tom Hudner. In Para 4, our scribbling colleague writes in regard to Jesse: During his SAVING time FROM the US Navy, Jesse develops a new relationship with his fellow pilot during the Korean War, Tom Hudner…” Saving time? No, during his SERVING time IN (not from) the US Navy… That is, when he SERVED in the US Navy. In Para 16, the scribbler writes: “In the scene, Brown narrates to Hudner that if he would choose to follow orders, he WOULD DIE A LONG TIME ago…” This is a reckless way of writing anything for paying customers! We guess our colleague meant to say: “he WOULD HAVE DIED a long time ago.” More from the scribbler in Para 19: “On their first mission, Brown disobeyed the order from his wingman, Hudner, after SAWING one of the bridges didn’t blow up…” Here, of course, our struggling colleague meant to say: “…after SEEING that one of the bridges didn’t blow up…” And finally, in Para 22, the scribbler writes this: “On their way to return to the base, tragedy happened to THE BROWN PLANE after BEING HIT which forced HIMSELF to land on THE OPENING space.” I’ll avoid fussing on this one simply decipher it thus: “On their way to return to the base, BROWN’S plane WAS HIT, and that forced HIM to land on AN OPEN space.” And then in the Saturday, February 18, Bongo’s huge and colourful broadsheet ran on Page 1 a story with the headline, ‘Sniff out child rapists, PM orders RCs, RPCs’. In his intro, the scribbler writes: ‘Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa has directed regional commissioners and regional police commanders to arrest and arraign IN COURT people who abuse children…” Arraign in court? Nope! Why, the verb “arraign” by itself, means “call (someone) before a court to answer a criminal charge” So, just say: “…arraign people… Our scribbling colleague writes further in Para 4: “The premier emphasised that the SIXTH PHASE government LED BY PRESIDENT SAMIA SULUHU HASSAN will not turn a blind eye to acts of violence…” Note that our colleague is reporting, not quoting the PM. Now in journalese, the rule of the thumb is, when one word can do—for heaven’s sake—don’t use two. So, why didn’t our colleague simply report: “The premier emphasised that the government will not turn a blind eye to….” We’re talking about avoiding redundancy. Verbosity is okay for politicians, not for journos! On Page 3, there’s a story entitled, ‘Stakeholders CHEERFUL with government move to offer loans for students in tertiary colleges’. How about: ‘Stakeholders CHEER as Govt MOVES to offer… Reporting on stakeholders’ sentiments, the scribbler writes: “The compliments came FEW days WHEN President Samia Suluhu Hassan unveiled the government’s plan to offer loans to students pursuing studies in tertiary colleges…” Few days? Nope; we say “a few days.” Yes; the compliments came A FEW days AFTER (not when) President Samia….” Ah, this treacherous language called English!