Dar es Salaam. Tanzania’s envoys in the CAF Confederation Cup, Young Africans (Yanga), are today facing the challenging task of TP Mazembe of the DR Congo in the group D encounter at the Benjamin Mkapa Stadium in Dar es Salaam. The match has been scheduled to kickoff at 7pm Tanzanian time and will be officiated by Mauritania’s referees and the newly appointed minister for Sports, Pindi Chana, will be the guest of honour. The referees are Abdel Aziz Mohamed Bouh, who will be at the centre, Hamedine Diba will be the first assistant and Brahim H’Made the second assistant. Read:Yanga-TP Mazembe clash hots up as referees named The game’s fourth official is Moussa Diou. Another group D match will see Real Bamako hosting US Monastir of Tunisia in Bamako. It is a must win match for Yanga if they are to qualify for the knockout stage of the competition. Yanga are now at the bottom of their group standings with no point while TP Mazembe are at the top with three points and are followed by Tunisia’s US Monastir with three points too. However, Monastir have less goals than those of TP Mazembe. Speaking on the eve of the eagerly awaited encounter, Yanga head coach Nesreddine Nabi said he is confident that he will conquer the game over the DR Congo giants. “We have the responsibility of winning every game. “It is a very important match as we lost the first one. Always, there is no easy match as each team target victory,” said Nabi. The Jangwani Street giants will be without their Ghanaian attacking midfielder Bernard Morrison, who is nursing his injury and will be out of the team for two months. “All technical matters ahead of the encounter have been done and we are now waiting for the time and the players are ready for the challenge. “We are aware that it is going to be a tough game as TP Mazembe are one of the African giants,” he said. Yanga’s striker Fiston Mayele said they are aware of the uphill task they are going to face in the encounter and called upon all football fans in the country to give them moral support. “We know what Tanzania’s football fans want to get from us after losing our first match in Tunisia. “We have rectified all the mistakes that we made and we promise that we are going to play with determination and come out with the best result to make all Tanzanian fans happy,” said Yanga’s Congolese striker, who is expected to lead the team’s striking force against TP Mazembe. 