Dar es Salaam. The government stated yesterday that it has not yet found an alternative supplier for Electronic Tax Stamps (ETS) and that manufacturers, who have been complaining about the high costs of the existing one, have not come forward with a cheaper choice. A statement by the minister for Finance and Planning, Dr Mwigulu Nchemba, comes amid an uproar from manufacturers who argue that SICPA, a Swiss company that currently supplies ETS to Tanzania Revenue Authority (TRA), was charging them exorbitantly. Manufacturers are on record as having been quoted saying each year, they pay over Sh100 billion in ETS charges alone to the Swiss firm. It was against such a background that the Confederation of Tanzania Industries (CTI) decided to bring the topic to the government through Dr Nchemba and his Investment, Industry and Trade counterpart, Dr Ashatu Kijaji during a breakfast meeting yesterday. It was the CTI executive director Leodegar Tenga asked to know the progress of the government’s decision to find the new supplier for electronic tax stamps. His question was a follow up on a tender to pick an affordable ETS supplier which the TRA announced in February, last year (2022). But in response, Dr Nchemba said yesterday that the tendering process had reached its final stages but hastened to add that the government was not satisfied with the results. “We are looking for the best but what we saw was that from what we received, the one who was to be given the task has almost the same ETS costs as the existing supplier,” said Dr Nchemba. He queried: “Would you be happy that we announce the winner of the international tender who offers the ETS services at a cost almost similar to the current one?” He said the government decided to do window shopping first. He urged manufacturers to propose, if any, a supplier with modern technology and who could offer the best service at relatively cheaper costs. “If you have one, tell him or her to meet with the appropriate authorities, and we will conduct our due diligence,” said Dr Nchemba. His sentiments were echoed by the minister for Investment, Industry and Trade, Dr Ashatu Kijaji. “One year back, you said you have a supplier who can provide the same service at a lower cost. Surprisingly, you never brought him/her (to us-government),” she wondered. She added: “I reiterate my sentiment, if you have one, link him/her with us so that we don’t delay the process of getting a new supplier.” Speaking earlier, Mr Tenga said ETS was a matter of concern to manufacturers who pay for the stamps at exorbitant rates. “The problem with ETS is high costs and nothing else,” he said. Tanzania Cigarette Public Limited Company general manager and chief executive officer Takashi Araki shared similar sentiments. “The concept of ETS is perfect as it encourages conforming to tax payments and curb illicit deeds,” said Mr Araki. However, he said, the costs were unpleasant. “The quality itself is not sufficient. Machines stop sometimes. This is unhealthy to our businesses. I wish we could take this seriously,” concluded Mr Araki. The government introduced the ETS in 2018, with the first phase of the project conducted on January 15, 2019. While Tanzania Revenue Authority (TRA) says the system has helped to raise excise revenue collections, manufacturers say the “purported achievement was at a very huge cost to them” because they are the ones paying billions of shillings each year to the supplier of ETS. ETS enables manufacturers to know their production volume and thus sends real time production data to the government. This in turn, gives the government a chance to ascertain the amount of tax revenue to be collected from manufacturers.