Dar es Salaam. Tanzania’s envoys in the CAF Confederation Cup, Young Africans (Yanga) leave today for Tunis, Tunisia, ahead of their first leg of the group D’s first match against US Monastir on Sunday. The team will be without their attacking midfielder Bernard Morrison who is nursing his injury. Morrison will be out of the team’s camp for two months. The team’s contingent include second choice goalkeeper Abutwalib Mshery who is also nursing an injury. Mshery is going for treatment. The team’s contingent comprises 42 people out of whom, 27 are players recruited by the club ahead of the competition. Yanga competition director Saad Kawemba said the team will leave by an Emirates plane, explaining that they have decided to depart early in order to acclimatize. “We are going to play in cold weather conditions to which we need to get used to. Some of us are already in Tunis to prepare for the team’s accommodation and other necessities ahead of the match,” said Kawemba. He explained that they are taking the encounter seriously and the main target is to win. “We will be travelling for two days before starting the training session. Basically we have limited time due to flight connection issues,” he said. The Jangwani side will also have an uphill task of facing TP Mazembe at the Benjamin Mkapa Stadium on February 19. They will then travel to Bamako to play against Real Bamako on February 26 at the Stade 26 Mars as they finish the first round stage. The second round matches for the Jangwani Street boys will start from March 7 as they host Real Bamako before battling against US Monastir on March 19 and complete the groups stage matches on April 2 facing TP Mazembe at Stade TP Mazembe in Lubumbashi. Meanwhile, Simba wll leave the country on Thursday to Conakry, Guinea ahead of the African Champions League match against Horoya FC on Saturday. Simba’s Information officer Ahmed Ally said players to be in the team’s continengt will be known after team’s training scheduled for today and tomorrow. “Players are reporting in the team’’s training camp tomorrow (today), so it is too early to name who will be in the trip,” said Ally.