When Orlando Pirates and Mamelodi Sundowns meet it tends to be an epic challenge for both teams and Bucs coach Jose Riveiro knows very well that his players need to be at their best when they host Downs in the DStv. Premiership at the Orlando Stadium on Saturday. ALSO READ: Can Pirates end Sundowns’ winning rampage? Looking at the last four meetings in all competitions between Pirates and Sundowns, the Pretoria outfit has registered three wins, while the Soweto based club only got one victory. Heading into this clash, both sides have done well in their respective games, with Riveiro’s men claiming three wins in a row, while Sundowns are on 14 consecutive league wins. “One more week and it’s important to play for three points again. It goes without saying that it is a special one, it is going to be an interesting game, I hope,” said Riveiro.  “Playing at home it is mandatory for us to prepare for the game with a proper mentality. We understand that we are meeting a good opponent, but we have to think of our duties … and look for improvement from the last game when we played against Gallants.” “We need to do things better and like I said, it is an interesting opponent ahead of us.” The Pirates coach emphasises that both teams are on a high at the moment.  “I think both teams are in a good moment in terms of results. You don’t win 14 games in a row if you are not doing well, you don’t even win three games in a row if you are not doing well. It is going to be a test for both teams and one of us won’t be happy at the end of the game because we are two teams that don’t play for a draw,” Riveiro added. Meanwhile, Pirates captain Innocent Maela is upbeat going into the game, and he says there has been a lot of hard-work being put in by the players at training to show how ready they are for the tie. “It’s been a good week so far, good commitment at training. Like the coach said, we try to improve any other week. So, so far so good for us,” said Maela.  The Sea Robbers go into this match with the side currently in fourth place on the league table with 28 points in 18 matches, while Bafana Ba Style are at the summit of the log after registering 52 points in 20 games.