Dar es Salaam. Tanzania will in April feature in the All Africa Junior Golf Championships scheduled to take place in Kampala, Uganda, The Citizen can reveal. Apart from Tanzania, the competition will feature countries namely Nigeria, Botswana, Malawi, Senegal, Togo, Rwanda, Zimbabwe, South Africa, Kenya, Namibia and the hosts, Uganda. Speaking with The Citizen yesterday, Tanzania Golf Union (TGU) chairman Gilman Kasiga said that they are now scouting junior golfers who will compete in the prestigious event. Last year it was held in Egypt, but Tanzania did not compete. Kasiga said they have many competent junior golfers who can represent the country well including winning the title. “We have junior golfers who normally compete in our tournament, but we need to select the best ones who will travel to Uganda. We need to keep them in training camp as April is just around the corner,” said Kasiga. He said TGU is very keen on youths development and that’s why they have confirmed to feature in the event. “This event is very important for the development of the game in the country. Young golfers need to be inspired and the only way is to make them compete internationally. It will be easy for others to join the game as there are fortunes for them ,” he said. Meanwhile, South Africa won all the major honours during the 2022 All Africa Junior Golf Championship at the Palm Hills Golf course, on October 6, Giza Governorate, Cairo city in Egypt. Besides winning the top male and female gongs, South Africa also triumphed in either team gender events. Pascal Gunther scored 283 strokes in four rounds to win the male competition with -5 ahead of Zimbabwe’s Michael Wallace with a par-288 score in 72 holes. The only positive was Uganda’s captain Godfrey Dunstan Nsubuga finishing among the top ten in the 8th place with 299 strokes. Nsubuga’s best round came on the final day with 1-under 71 on day four. Joseph Reegan Akena fell two places during the last day to finish 20th with 321 strokes. Emmanuel Adrabo was 26th with 326 strokes as Ibrahim Ssemakula finished 39th with 352 strokes. A total of 48 boys took part in the competition from South Africa, Uganda, Zimbabwe, Mauritius, Namibia, Gabon, Kenya, Botswana, Tunisia, Morocco, Zambia and hosts Egypt.