Dar es Salaam. Tanzania’s envoys in the CAF Champions League, Simba SC, today play their first card against Horoya AC at the General Lansana Conte Stadium in Conakry, Guinea. The match has been scheduled to kickoff at 4pm Tanzanian time and Egyptian Amin Mohammed Omar will be the centre referee. Omar will be assisted by Mahmoud Abouelregal and Ahmed Hossam Ibrahim as the first and second assistant referees and Mahmoud Elbana also from Egypt will be the fourth official. Gambian Bakary Jammeh will be the match commissioner. This will be the first test for Simba’s new head coach Brazilian Roberto Oliviera alias Robertinhno since he took over the team from Juma Mgunda, who is now an assistant coach. The match is expected to be thrilling because of the statuses of the two teams. Statistics show that Horoya AC are at the top of Guinea’s Premier League (Ligue 1) table. So far the club have won nine matches out of 13 they have played with two draws and one loss to collect 29 points in the Guinean league featuring only 14 teams. The team have so far scored 20 goals while conceding only four. Simba are placed second in the Mainland Tanzania Premier League log with 53 points from 22 matches. The Msimbazi Street giants have so far won 16 matches, drawing five and losing one. Records show that Simba have the sharpest strikers who have so far scored 54 goals while conceding 13 in the league featuring 20 teams. Simba head coach Robertinho said all of his players are in good shape to produce a good result in the encounter. He said the players are aware of their commitment to the encounter in which they have promised to fight hard and come out with a good result. “It is one of our important matches in the competition. We need to stretch our muscles in order to win the game,” said Robertinho. He said, according to records, Horoya AC are a strong team that they do not underestimate. “My players are ready for the match and have promised to come out with a good result. It is a very important encounter to us because our target for now is to qualify for the knockout stage of the competition,” said Robertinho.