Dar es Salaam. Defending champions Young Africans (Yanga) have opened an eight point gap against their traditional rivals, Simba, after winning 1-0 over Kinondoni Municipal Council (KMC) at the Benjamin Mkapa Stadium in Dar es Salaam yesterday. Yanga’s lone goal was scored by Clement Mzinze in the 38 minute following mistakes made by KMC goalkeeper David Kisu, who failed to punch away the corner kick ball taken by Dickson Ambundo. The victory has enabled Yanga to collect 62 points from 23 matches in the league and need to win five matches in order to retain the league title for the second time. Yanga would win with a big margin in the encounter if Mzinze were to utilize well various clear scoring chances created. KMC made various goal attempts to Yanga’s goal, but their strikers either shot wide or straight to the Jangwani Street goalkeeper Djigui Diarra. So far, the league’s top spot is a two horse race by giants, Yanga and Simba, despite the current point gap between them. This is because the eight point gap can be closed in just three matches out of seven that have remained for all 16 teams. This means that Simba have to ‘pray’ for bad results by the Jangwani Street giants in three matches while they (Simba) record victories in all their remaining matches. Although it is a huge task, but sometimes it can happen because football has very strange results. If Simba close the point gap, they will replace Yanga at the top because of their good average of goals scored. Simba have so far scored 55 goals and conceded 14 while Yanga have scored 41 goals and conceded 10. As Yanga and Simba are battling for the top spot, four teams are struggling to avoid relegation to the Championship, formally the First Division League. The teams are Ruvu Shooting who are at the bottom (16th) of the league standings with 17 points from 23 matches while Polisi Tanzania are placed 15th with 19 points from the same number of matches. Also, on the list are Tanzania Prisons who are placed 14th with 22 points and Coastal Union who are in the 13th position with 22 points from 23 matches. As per the league’s regulations, the 16th and 15th placed teams will be relegated directly to the Championship while the 14th and 13th placed sides will feature in playoffs against second placed teams from the Championship to determine their status in the league. If they lose the matches, the teams will be relegated and if they win the games they will remain in the Premiership.