Sexually transmitted infections and sexually transmitted diseases are not the same thing. The infection usually comes before a disease. Sometimes the infection may not lead to any symptoms or signs. These infections are usually transmitted through sexual contact including through bodily fluids or skin contact via vaginal, oral and anal sex. They may not lead to disease if treated early. Occasionally they may go away without causing disease. In South Africa in 2017 there were an estimated 2.3 million new cases of gonorrhoea, 1.9 million new chlamydia cases and 23 175 new syphilis cases among women aged between 15 and 49.Among men of the same age there were an estimated 2.2 million new cases of gonorrhoea, 3.9 million new cases of chlamydia and 47 500 new cases of syphilis. If a sexually transmitted infection progresses to an STD, symptoms will be different.  ALSO SEE: Life may be getting harder, but getting harder is getting cheaper The person with an STD will experience: Some symptoms may not be related to the genital area, they are usually non-specific and systemic. They include: Sexually transmitted infections like chlamydia and gonorrhoea can cause diseases like pelvic inflammatory disease (PID), and also some forms of cancer, caused by human papillomavirus (HPV) like cervical or penile cancer. Gonorrhoea, chlamydia, and trichomoniasis are common STIs that can lead to PID if left untreated. Other bacterial infections may cause PID. PID is a leading cause of both tubal factor infertility and ectopic pregnancy.  A complication of untreated PID is scarring of the fallopian tubes. There are around 50–75 000 PID cases diagnosed in England annually. Although this infection of the female reproductive organs is classified as a disease, some people have no symptoms. Those who do have symptoms may experience: Antibiotics can successfully treat PID if it’s diagnosed early enough. ALSO SEE: Masturbation: The benefits of becoming your ‘own lover’ The earlier stages of syphilis do not normally present as diseases. They are symptomless. What is usually seen is one or more small round sores on the genitals, anus, or mouth.  If left untreated, syphilis will move to the latent phase, which has no symptoms. The process to developing tertiary syphilis from here may take between 10 and 30 years after the initial infection. The earlier syphilis is diagnosed and treated, the less damage it does.  This disease can have serious consequences and lead to: Treatment for tertiary syphilis is penicillin injections but this needs to happen before permanent damages have occurred. Human papilloma virus infections can lead to certain cancers but not all the time.  The cancers associated with HPV infection include: Almost all the cancers of cervix are caused by HPV that is why it is important to do the tests, including pap smears, once one is sexually active.  The symptoms of cancer will include bleeding, pain on the site and swelling. Early diagnosis and treatment is key as it will prevent against the cancer spreading to other parts of the body. Treatment is surgery, chemotherapy or radiotherapy. These are also caused by the human papilloma virus. They appear as skin-coloured growths usually in the genitalia, anus or the mouth. They can go away by themselves without treatment, but they tend to reoccur. To get them removed there are chemical creams or liquids. If they are larger or do not respond to this there are options to freeze them, burn them or surgically remove them. This disease is caused by infection by the HIV. Many people can live long symptomless lives without getting this disease due to starting treatment early.  HIV can damage the immune system and if left untreated, the virus can lead to Aids, where the body becomes vulnerable to serious infections and illnesses. The symptoms of Aids may include: One cannot conclude on symptoms alone what infection the person has, it is therefore important to visit your doctor for examination and tests. The following are the steps the doctor will follow to diagnose and therefore know appropriate treatment: Lifestyle modification including abstaining from sexual intercourse until treatment is completed may be advised. Your doctor will also ask you to invite your sexual partners for treatment. Oral treatment and injectables are available to treat most of the infections. Any damage that has been caused to the organs may be irreversible. ALSO SEE: Trendy sex toys to try out in 2023