Tanzania has more than 30 sports associations, but few of them do the country proud, despite the fact that they work on a regular basis. The majority of the associations fall well short of the goals for which they were created. They only exist because of the laws and regulations that govern them. Tanzania may not have achieved great things in recent decades in international contests, but it has been fairly represented in athletics, swimming, judo, tennis, golf, and amateur boxing. Tanzania still needs a more serious international presence; however, it is regrettable that some sports bodies are still limiting the growth of their individual disciplines by failing to devise watertight policies. Such associations, it goes without saying, are not in the best interests of the country. In order to compete internationally, athletes must have exposure to and familiarity with it. They can use this to evaluate their abilities and identify areas where they need to improve after participating in the specific sporting event. The nation’s reputation has suffered as a result of numerous sports associations’ failure to host national or international competitions. Leaders of sports associations, who routinely ask the government for funding, frequently use phrases like “lack of finances and support.” It is a well-known fact that the government, through the National Sports Council (NSC), lacks the funds to give all sports organisations the support they need to compete on the national and, in some circumstances, even international levels. We are requesting that the leaders of sports organisations demonstrate their dedication to the growth of sports in the nation by allowing athletes to compete in a variety of international tournaments and take home the top prizes. The fact that certain sports organisations have the chance to compete on a worldwide level but are unable to do so due to a lack of funds, while others are able to live comfortably while they wait for donations from fans, is extremely frustrating. The youth are the future of sports and leadership, we are regularly told. They will not be able to assume those positions, though, unless they are comfortable with the democratic system and have the support they need.