Here’s your morning news update: An easy-to-read selection of our top stories. Stay up to date with The Citizen – More News, Your Way. The newly elected ANC North West provincial executive committee (PEC) is being challenged in court because it was allegedly elected in an improperly constituted conference in August last year. Five party members in the province have approached the high court in Mahikeng for relief claiming the conference was not conducted in line with the ANC guidelines and constitution and the court should declare the conference and its decisions or resolutions as unlawful and set them aside. Read more here.  ourism Minister Lindiwe Sisulu is reportedly expected to pull the plug on SA Tourism’s nearly R1 billion sponsorship deal for English Premier League football club, Tottenham Hotspurs. The SundayTimes reports that Sisulu will announce the decision to the nation on Sunday after she held a meeting with the SA Tourism board on Saturday. ALSO READ: Here’s why 3 key SA Tourism board members resigned en masse over Hotspur deal  According to sources who spoke to the publication, the agency’s board informed the minister that it was misled by the management of SA Tourism over the proposed deal. Find out more.  South Africa’s load shedding is practically permanent now with the only change being what stage of load shedding the country finds itself in at any given moment.  Here’s what to expect this coming week. The first episode of Themba: My Inked World aired last week and the show and its stars have kept people talking ever since.  Surprisingly, the former Big Brother Mzansi contestant’s ex, Nqobile Khuzwayo has emerged as a fan favourite amongst viewers of the show, even surpassing his new wife Mpho Wabadimo whom she chose to pick a fight with.  Check out what she said.  At a time when Cricket South Africa are allegedly sending e-mails asking for more credit for the success of the SA20 league, Faf du Plessis sent his own message with the bat at the Wanderers on Sunday afternoon: He clearly still has the abs, the skills and the mental strength of old as he spearheaded the Joburg Super Kings’ victory over Sunrisers Eastern Cape. Read more here.