The last few weeks have been tough for many people across the world: globally the Earthquake in Turkey and Syria has devastated the world; locally the tragic road accident in Tanga, and others have left us all crestfallen. At a personal level too, we grapple with various emotional turmoils daily, caused by work and family strains.  At a time where mental health concerns have risen across the world, it is important to discuss and encourage each other as we navigate these moments of shadow, as we persist towards moments of light ahead. I learnt something recently, and it spurred my curiosity about how we deal with the difficult situations that every now and then punctuate our seemingly or expectantly smooth life. It is the idea of appreciating both the shadow and the light because none can exist without the other. We live in a society that has for a long time trained us to believe that negative emotions are bad, undesirable, distracting. So, we suppress them! But if we don’t acknowledge the shadow, how can we appreciate the light? In his book The Heart Aroused, the poet David Whyte eloquently describes the shadow of life as “everything we were afraid could be true about existence, and astonishingly, and despite everything we would wish to the contrary, it seems to be an energy without which we cannot appreciate the gift of the light-filled, ordered world; remove it, and our soul life becomes puzzlingly empty and impoverished”. He added that it is only by acknowledging and inviting the full range of human emotion, in ourselves and in others, that we can fully appreciate moments of light, joy, hilarity, triumph, etc. This means that instead of delegitimizing the negative emotions when we are down in the valley, the despairing, lonely, self-doubting parts of ourselves and others; we need to acknowledge and support them in running their course. Only then we can move up to higher grounds and look back with gratitude and triumph. What I am sharing today is simply a message of hope at times when many people may be feeling helpless, hopeless and are on the verge of despair. What I understand from the tension between light and shadow is that light and shadow are both natural occurrences that are necessary in giving meaning to life. This is a message to a dear brother or sister who cannot make sense of the suffering that we have endured as a people, but even more a message to someone who knows a brother or sister who is struggling to make sense of bad things that happen in their lives. As a society, one of the best ways we can be each other’s keeper is if we can learn to allow those near and by us to express their full range of emotions, and remind them that by perpetually taking steps forward, we will reach the bright ground. This is not easy of course as we all have our struggles. Besides, one can support the other only to the extent they can support themselves. This means that our relationships are by nature, symbiotic - we receive by giving and we give by receiving. To enjoy this symbiosis however, we must be both critical and affirmative, but in a creatively imbalanced way. We must know the order - appreciative first, then critical. We must also maintain the quantity ration - offer more affirmation than criticism. Over and above, this creative imbalance is founded on a groundswell of faith between the person or group experiencing the shadow and the supporting side. The faith that all communication is founded on goodwill and love, and that moving from shadow to light is the best interest of both the involved parties. This means that authenticity is key. It involves appreciating our vulnerability, which then allows us to communicate the limitations in our abilities. Indeed, being authentic, affirmative and critical in a creatively balanced way allows us to support each other as we navigate the undercurrents of shadow; the stretches of life that are rife with negativity. That is how we can collectively experience shadow and come out on the other side with our spirits not broken but intact and if anything, stronger and more resilient. Indeed, our role as individuals and a society is to know that there is light in every shadow!