Dar es Salaam. As Cameroonian referees have been picked to officiate Simba’s second match of the CAF Champions League against Raja Casablanca on Saturday, three players Peter Banda, Jonas Mkude and Sadio Kanoute will miss the encounter due to various reasons. According to the statement issued by African football governing body (CAF), famous referee Blaise Yuven Ngwa will be the centre referee of the encounter scheduled to kickoff at 7pm Tanzanian time at the Benjamin Mkapa Stadium in Dar es Salaam. Ngwa will be assisted by Elvis Noupoue Nguegoue and female referee Carine Atezambong Fomo in the expected thrilling and toughest encounter. Jeannot Franck Bito will be the fourth official. They are expected to arrive in the country today ahead of the encounter that Simba have to win in order to revive their hopes of qualifying for the quarterfinal. In the first match, Simba lost 1-0 to Horoya AC of Guinea while Raja Casablanca won 5-0 over Vipers of Uganda to lead group C in the competition. Till yesterday, Raja Casablanca were yet to reveal their arrival ahead of the encounter in which President Samia Suluhu Hassan has already promised to buy each goal to be scored by Simba players for Sh5 million. The President’s move aims to boost the morale of Simba’s players as Yanga have also been promised the same by the President when they face TP Mazembe of the DR Congo on Sunday at the same venue and at the same time. Yanga represent the country in the CAF Confederation Cup and are in group D. Meanwhile, Simba started training yesterday ahead of the encounter and will miss the services of Sadio Kanoute who is serving one match ban imposed by CAF due to three cards booking, Peter Banda who is nursing his injury sustained one day before facing Horoya AC in Conakry, Guinea, and Jonas Mkude due to technical reasons. However, Simba’s Media and Information Officer Ahmed Ally said the team’s fans and members have to smile following the return of Saido Ntibazonkiza, who did not feature in the Horoya match due to injury. Ally said Ntibazonkiza has recovered fully and is ready to face the Moroccans. “We are ready for the encounter. All the players are in high morale ahead of the very important encounter. We need victory at our home venue. “I call on fans and members to attend the encounter and give support to our players who have the best record at the home venue,” said Ally. He said tickets for the match are already on sale, whereby fans for VIP A will have to pay Sh30,000, VIP B and C Sh20,000 and Sh10,000 respectively and those in the remaining part of the venue will pay Sh3,000.